Okay,
this should be us live.
Hello.
I am all out of sorts this morning.
Let me at least post this real quick.
Hang on.
Man,
so um I've been studying quantum physics
and it's driving me crazy.
I was like watching lectures until I
don't know 10 or 11 last night and then
I just couldn't sleep trying to figure
out all these various different things.
I'm considering just ordering some
lasers and some optical stuff and trying
to run some experiments.
We'll see. Welcome, Magi.
Let me switch this over to stream view.
Okay, so we have some cool stuff to go
over today. Today is not about quantum
physics. Today is about reinforcement
learning and specifically
this large scale battle simulator that
I've been working on. But first, let's
take a quick look at the experiments
that ran overnight. Uh because it looks
like Puffer does robotics. Now, here's a
robotics environment.
Puffer solves it. Where is it? Yeah,
Puffer solves it perfectly.
No, no big news there. Puffer kind of
just solves everything. It did need some
sweeps. I'm gonna have to grab like the
best parameters out of this and all
that. And I have to show the guy who
built this sim to see what he thinks we
should do next with it. But yeah, it's
pretty cool. All right, so let's talk
about the uh the battle sim that I've
been wanting to work on. Also, we can
kill this. This has all the data that we
ever need.
All right,
I should rename this.
Started out as like a schooling
simulator for fish or whatever and did
crazy things with it.
Uh, for some reason it does not want to
render, which is weird.
Oh, I bet this is Nvidia drivers.
Yeah, this is Nvidia drivers.
All right,
we'll show the sim and then I'll talk
about my plans for what we're going to
do with it today.
Actually,
where's Tyler when you need him? I know
a physics PhD that I can bother about
all sorts of insane quantum mechanics
things.
I've been actually trying to understand
the uh the math as well.
Not that bad conceptually until you ask
me to actually like go solve the
equations manually.
All right. So, here's the sim. Anyways,
now it doesn't look like much yet. So,
let me just get us a quick very quick
little baseline on this.
just so you can get an idea and then
we'll talk about how uh we're going to
modify this simulator
because it sort of works at the moment,
but like I'm not super happy with
several things about the way it's
designed and I think we can get way more
coherent behaviors out of it.
coffee idea.
Tried training default yesterday. Looks
like it's not learning quite that much.
Most of the time it's failed. How can I
train until it reaches in reward to
certain levels?
So I instead of trying to say how can I
train until it reaches min reward, you
should try to figure out why it's not
learning in a reasonable pace because
puffer should solve basically any
wellposed problem quite well. Like any
reasonable well-posed problem should be
solvable uh quite quickly. You just
adjust total time steps up to something
reasonable. Uh to give you an idea, most
of our simpler ends are solved within
like 50 to 200 million steps and at
several million steps per second. That
happens very very quickly.
And almost almost always by default, if
you have a reasonable problem that you
think should be of similar complexity to
one of our M's that is solved quite
quickly, it's almost always a data
problem. I tried breakout.
I mean, you tried breakout.
Okay, here. So, let me show this first
and then I'll show you how breakout just
works.
So, to show you that Puffer is saying
like this is a sim
just learn to do this in the last 20 or
30 seconds.
Okay,
clearly we have something
semi-reasonable here.
Now, if I just do puffer train, puffer
breakout out of the box, no setup
changes whatsoever.
Okay. So, this is literally 24 25
seconds.
Yeah, exactly.
So, this is a problem that you used to
have to run this overnight with other
reinforcement learning libraries. All
right. And just to show you that I'm
just not making those numbers up,
here's our model playing Breakout.
It plays kind of weird, but note that we
didn't tell it to play like a human. We
just told it to beat the game. So, it
doesn't matter if it waves the paddle
around wildly, as long as it's there
when it needs to be to actually hit the
puffer back.
So,
I don't know why it didn't why you say
why you have it like not working, but it
it kind of just works out of the box,
right?
This is just Puffer 3.0. Like I I don't
have any local changes or anything to
this.
Now, it's possible it takes you like 10
minutes or something because you're not
training on a GPU,
but there's like I can only work so much
magic, right? It's literally training 20
times faster on your CPU than you'd be
able to train it on GPU with other
libraries uh with their defaults the way
that they're set up. So, it does get to
be like, you know, several hundred times
faster uh if you actually are training
it on like a reasonable hardware setup.
This is literally just my local desktop
right here. Like this is not running
remotely or anything. It's like a nice
local desktop, but it is just a desktop.
Okay.
How do you understand when to stop or
when it's not learning anymore? Right
here, the game is scored from like zero
to I think it's like 850 something or
860 something. And most of our
environments to make it even easier for
you, we have a zero to one normalized.
So this is 98% right there of the
maximum score.
See this? And you can do d- Neptune or
D-1B to get graphs of these things. So
when I do this, this is all done
automatically for you. Just dash Neptune
or whatever you get all these graphs.
Okay, back to the battle ends.
I want to rename these real quick.
on tensorboard narl, I was dealing with
a min reward for each episode.
Okay, it's a little bit more subtle why
that's a dumb thing to do, but please
take my word on it that that's kind of a
dumb thing to do. Um, it's way better to
just run it for a certain number of
steps or a certain amount of time or
whatever. um and and just observe the
results from there.
Like don't try to don't try to like make
puffer lib work like RLIB. Like RLIB is
literally the worst RL library in
existence. And I'm sorry to say that
because I know some of the devs, they
tried very hard on it. Like they
genuinely wanted to do this stuff, but
it's just it's simply not the way to
build a reinforcement learning library.
Um, the reasons for it are a little bit
subtle, but like the way that big tech
builds libraries is not the way that you
can approach reinforcement learning.
I've said this so many times and it's so
difficult to get people to understand
this, but it is truly truly important.
Um,
so yeah, rather than trying to make
puffer liib look like rlib, just try to
use puffer lilib and then when something
doesn't make sense on its own terms, not
in comparison to another library, then
let me know and I'm here all day to
help.
That makes sense.
Thanks. I'm pretty impressed.
I'd hope so, man. I do this all day.
This is the only thing I do. I'd better
be good at it, right?
That's kind of how it goes.
I mean, I can try to give you a little
bit of the intuition.
3 mil SPS. We get faster than 3 million,
honestly. Like, puffer lib, we can
probably make it several times faster
even than it is now. And I have run
tests up to 20 million. Uh, it's like
silly cases, but I've gotten it up to 20
million steps per second on one GPU. So,
here, let me try to just give you a
little bit of the intuition because this
is honestly uh local machine config.
This is a 4090 with like a 9950X. It's
like one of the best desktop setups you
can buy. I also have one with a 5090
sitting on the rack behind me. Uh, but
yeah, it's a good desktop, but it is
just a desktop. It's not like server
grade hardware.
I don't have like H200s or something.
So, let me let me just try to convey
this because like this is honestly where
everybody like trips and stump like
trips and falls and breaks their legs in
reinforcement learning. Um, the reason
that you don't do stuff like you do it
in big tech engineering, in
reinforcement learning specifically, is
because the price of overabraction and
the price of error is incredibly higher
in reinforcement learning than in
everything else. That is to say, it's
kind of always a nice thing to keep
stuff simple, but in reinforcement
learning specifically, if you don't keep
stuff simple, you will pay dearly
because the bugs are just going to be
the agent doesn't train. Okay? And it's
even worse than the rest of supervised
learning because your data set is part
of the generation loop as well and you
have this whole additional hard uh
infrastructure stack for dealing with
the data. So it is truly this like open
feedback loop system where you have like
no sanity check on anything.
All right, you can do your best with
logging and stuff, but you will still
end up with crazy issues. And there's
not even a fundamental science of it
that tells you how stuff should actually
work that fits any of what we've
observed. So with all of this, you would
be insane to not build stuff as
absolutely dead simple as possible. And
that is at odds with how big tech builds
stuff. And the proof of this, the proof
that I am right here is that every
single modular abstracted RL library
that looks like every other piece of
software that you would see in big tech
has failed horribly.
That is the proof. And it is actually
the simpler, lighter weight, more
compact libraries that are orders of
magnitude faster uh and are useful on
much larger projects.
If you internalize that, you will go
very far.
If you do not, you will become stuck.
That is simply how it is.
So, a lot of my job here is to try to
make this simpler and simpler and
simpler and faster and faster and faster
so that it's actually easier to intuitit
what's going on here. And this is why we
have brand new programmers getting into
reinforcement learning now when before
like nobody even knew what was going on
with a PhD in the exact topic. But it's
still hard and it's still going to
require some, you know, mental
adjustment if that makes sense.
Okay, good. So, this still runs. Just
renamed it. No big deal.
Okay, cool.
So, all I did so far is renamed the
environment. Now, I haven't looked at
this thing in like a week and a half.
Let's actually think about what we want
to do with this.
There are a couple big issues at the
moment.
I think that the biggest there the two
biggest issues right now are figuring
out how to do the observations in a sane
way, which that takes a little bit of
code, but isn't that hard. Uh the other
thing is how how do we do evaluation
metrics?
I kind of want to just get some code in
while I'm fresh and then we'll think
about evaluation metrics after.
Uh, I forgot to change the resources.
Okay. So, you have in this simple demo,
you've got two armies. They fight yada
yada.
They can't actually see each other right
now is the problem. Uh, also the physics
sucks. So,
let's fix them not being able to see
each other first.
The only way that I know to do this
without complicating it a lot is
horribly slow, but we'll just restrict
this to smaller armies just for now, and
then I'll come up with a better way to
do it later.
Yeah. So,
actually, I don't think it's going to be
all that much code
What's your thoughts on time series
more specifically? data that has
sequencing information.
That's like literally reinforcement
learning by default,
right? It's an interaction problem.
You're an agent. You see the world, you
take an action, the world changes, you
take another action, the world changes
more. That is almost by definition a
time series problem. And in fact, the
problems that you can solve without
having time series information are a
specific subclass and almost an
exception to the rule. So you don't have
to do anything like just by default.
That's what reinforcement learning does.
Oh yeah, use our recurrent model by
default. So it actually has some memory,
but that's about it.
It's a non-stationary problem.
Reinforcement learning is by definition
non-stationary because your actions
change the environment. Doesn't matter.
The question should be more like why the
hell does any of this work at all? And
we don't really know, but we've gotten
pretty good at making it to
We don't need square root f here. We'll
save this little bit of compute. It's
negligible, but still
Question is going to be how do we sort
this
quick sword's just going to give us Ah,
yeah. That's annoying.
any technique or learning algorithm with
it detects and adopt and change policy
based on long sequence.
I mean, it's literally all of them. It's
just like the longer the sequence, the
worse they work. Yes, there's research
directed to this area. I find a lot of
the results on like specific RL for like
long horizon or this and that very
unconvincing though.
Look, if you have a problem and your
problem does not look like it's harder
than the problems that we have in
Puffer, the default thing will just
work. If you have something that you
think looks harder, then come discuss
it.
I really don't want to have to write my
own sort.
Not because it's difficult, but because
optimizing that is a pain.
If we assume that we just ignore ties, I
can do it in a sort of a hacky way.
Um, it's Yeah, I have to do an argu
though.
I'm going to be lazy with it for now.
Wait, what the hell is this?
Did it just come up with something
insane or is this somehow correct?
Yeah, that's what I'm going to use
wouldn't. It's just annoying because I
have to do an arg sort. There's There's
no like trivial way to just do an
argort, right?
I guess you just make like a little
strct or something.
Maybe we'll just do it that way. Maybe
that'll be easier.
graph neural net. What's that have to do
with anything, Finn?
Welcome though.
That's lit like that's not an RL
problem. That's a that's a perception
problem. You have no control over the
environment. You don't use reinforcement
learning for problems where you don't
have any control over the environment.
Typically,
unless you're forced to
reinforcement learning, like if you had
to just pick one word, right, for
reinforcement learning, like the key
essence of it is interaction. There's no
interaction.
Sometimes people use RL for stuff, but
it's not like a clear fit.
I forgot to name this.
the high speed,
but you're not trying to
you're you're just moving yourself based
on a response to what the other things
in the environment are doing.
You literally don't need to change the
standard reinforcement formula uh
reinforcement learning formulation at
all to handle this case.
It's like very tempting to think that
there's something special about a lot of
problems where like you need some fancy
new algorithm and then you go spend
three months doing uh a whole bunch of
research on that and then your like
fancy new method is worse than the
baseline. Like every single RLP PhD
pretty much to a tea has done this at
some point.
The thing is like it's often the case
that your problem really just isn't that
special
and there's not really anything about it
that makes the standard thing not work.
And if you want to make something that's
just better than the standard and that's
a lot of work, which by the way we did.
We have something that's better than the
standard uh in Puffer Lib 3.0. It's this
huge leap. It took us 30,000 experiments
over a ton of different environments to
make that happen.
Okay. So now we have this thing. We have
these agent obs. And now what we can do
is we can quick sort the agent obs. We
just need a comparison function.
There you go.
I think that's right.
And now what we do is we simply iterate
through them again.
in the LSTM give a better yes we use
LSTM by default for like everything
that 3 million step per second result or
5 million step per second result
whatever that's including an LSTM Ready?
Do we need to filter this by theta?
Let's just do it this way for now to
see.
is there a way we can use one agent
steps as an observation space for other
set of agents
depends what you means by steps their
action specifically I mean if the other
you can make the other agents see the
other agents as they're moving around
right agents can see each other as
they're moving around. If you want to
specifically observe the actions that
they take, yes, you can do that. You
just have to add it into the environment
as the uh observation space.
It's a little odd to do though because
normally you can't get that information
in the real world. So, it kind of
depends on the problem context.
know it's own unit type, right?
One, two, three, four, five, six,
19.
19 + 8
army. So yeah, this is 3 *
16.
And we'll basically just have to see
Oh, you're dumb.
Hang on.
I don't know why I did this in two
dimensions.
There we go. That's three dimensions.
This
4 * 16.
So now they should be able to see the
nearest 16 agents to themselves.
And we have to modify this environment
quite a bit because this is going to
incredibly slow as written.
How about continuous space? What am I
going to say? Doesn't matter. Throw it
into the algorithm.
We literally have it right here. Doesn't
matter. Throw it in the algorithm.
That's the key technique to observe.
What do you mean?
No, not really. It's just that a lot of
the things that you're specifically
asking about are just things that we
that kind of don't matter to RL. It's
like, oh, it's a continuous versus a
discrete value. Whatever. Stick it in
the observations and just don't do it in
a dumb way.
Yeah. So, collision right here is bad.
This thing is not training correctly.
Let me think.
some sort of data issue.
We have this training before
if we had those metrics.
Every second we have a snapshot
that that is the observation. It is what
the agency is at every fixed interval of
time.
Okay. Yeah. So here the collision rate
is good.
The fact that it's not good here
uh means something is wrong with the
observation somehow. Let's see what I
did.
So we have
uh distance
This is numbum armies* 3 plus
cure
I had this wrong
and if this frames basically will know
that I've done it correctly
have to be very careful with
observations.
There you go.
Instantly huge difference.
I'm specifically I'm looking at the
collision right here.
And now it very quickly learns to not
crash into the ground.
if stones replied yet.
He's probably asleep. He's in California
graduate student time zone.
big mistake to purchase Mac Studio.
Yeah. I mean, for RL, you kind of need
Nvidia GPUs. It's just how it works.
Does this thing spin this thing? This is
probably a dumb idea, but here
like No, doesn't spin all the way sadly.
I was going to see if I could spin it to
get to the PC, but it doesn't. I'd have
to like fully shift it.
Ah, now I messed up my camera. Hang on.
Who is king?
I'm on a farm.
I'm literally in This is a warehouse on
a farm.
That's literally corn.
Unfortunately, I haven't really been
able to enjoy the outdoors at all in the
last couple weeks. It's freaking hot and
they're like biting insects everywhere.
Now, this is this is tech stream. We do
tech here.
lab tour. The lab is right I mean it's
literally just like a bunch of PCs on a
rack. You can see them right behind me.
I don't know. I was I was looking on uh
I was looking for like lasers and
optical stuff earlier today for a side
project. Maybe I'll show that if I get
any of that stuff.
I'm learning um I'm studying quantum
physics and I'm kind of wanting to do
some experiments.
Some of that equipment is ridiculously
expensive, but some of it's pretty
cheap.
I think we can just add a small
observation to fix OB
because it basically doesn't know when
it's going out of bounds.
Let's see if that does anything.
Obs
We'll see if that does anything to OB.
Okay.
Yeah. So, out of bounds is not being
fixed, it seems, by this obs.
Oh, no. Yes, it is.
Yeah, it just took it a little bit.
Horse flies this week.
Horse flies are the worst.
Like I I don't think I'm going to out to
run outside tomorrow cuz like literally
last week I ran I was out for an hour
maybe an hour 10. Uh brutally hot. But
then I came back and I had golf ball
sized welts all over my back from uh
just all the freaking horse flies and
whatever other biting stinging insects
there are.
literally would just be running and like
rip them off of my back and stuff as I'm
going.
Yeah.
Huh?
Hey, Spencer.
There's some sort of maneuvering going
on here. It's interesting.
Oh, I think it's the um
these ones here. These flat planes are
bombers.
Uh they should be trying to be very high
up in the air because they fired like
directly down.
So, they want to be like pretty high up
in the air.
But I think that they're hitting the
skybox is their problem.
How can I do ray train from last
training snapshot? We don't usually do
that. You can try to just like d-load
model path. See if that works.
I like it's as funny as it is. We
literally don't bother with that most of
the time because of how fast our
experiments are.
We teach agent to do new skill
either you can load policies up like
that's a thing you can do. So it's we
just usually with Puffer we usually
don't bother because most of our
experiments are so fast
and also like a lot of the stuff we're
doing is science side stuff. So it's
like we want things to re be
reproducible and if you chain together a
whole bunch of experiments it's harder
to reproduce the results if you just
have one that runs from the start.
Let me think about the second problem
that we're going to have here.
Second problem that we're going to have
here is how we actually know which of
these is any good when um
yeah, how do we know which of these is
any good? They're it's like pure
selfplay.
We'd have to make a scripted opponent,
right?
But we can cheat with the scripted
opponent a little bit, I think.
Yeah, I know what we're going to do.
We're basically just going to make a uh
an opponent that runs at you in a
straight line. I'm going to see if we
can beat that.
We'll go from there.
Let me go grab some more coffee restroom
one second and then we'll uh we'll do
Okay.
Scripted opponent time.
What we're going to do is we're going to
add scripted
ground.
It does not take actions.
And then this is going to be
eats physics
and moves
directly
to the nearest MMA.
We need to get nearest
nearest
int.
So, we're going to do entity star
nearest enemy.
See if this autofill is actually
reasonable.
Go through the agents. Get other. Yeah.
So, it literally just copy pasted this
from elsewhere in like my ops code,
which is fine.
Uh, this didn't include Y though.
We'll do that.
messing around with linking bullet 3 to
puffer. Do you think that might be a
reasonable thing to do or do you have
any ideas? Does bullet 3 have um
is it uh does it have GPU excel or no?
I think warp is the thing if you want
like to actually do like low-level
physics I think warp is the thing
that you do these days.
But we uh we are doing some robotic
stuff now. I think I showed this this
morning. So this is uh picking of a
cube. This is like pick up a cube, bring
it to a target or whatever. We have this
working super easily in Puffer. Um, and
we're starting to do more robotics
stuff. So, if you want like an out of
the box robotics thing to play with and
you want to like take our existing
stuff,
uh, you can ask me on like the new manny
skill stuff.
If you want to do your own low-level
things, I would look at something like
warp,
Nvidia Warp.
Oh, wait. This is Python.
Oh, never mind.
Wait, this is dumb.
Maybe it's physics.
Yeah, this is not the highle thing. This
is I This is not the low-level thing.
This is like some highle thing.
Might be physics. You'd have to look
into like what the actual like what all
the Sims are implemented using, right?
You kind of like the most useful thing
in robotics at the moment. If you want
something that's like truly difficult is
just getting like absolute maximum
performance sim.
I'd be very impressed if you could train
difficult robotic tasks like insertion.
I'd be very impressed if we couldn't.
Um, it's like we're gonna have to I'm
gonna have to spend a little bit more
time on stuff, but like this stuff
should not be hard.
Bullet 3 was go-to for lowle. Is it? I
think it's CPU.
Doesn't it not support if it doesn't
support GPU? Like physics is one of the
few things where it's like, yeah, you
need GPUs by default. Oh, wait.
Experimental Open CLG GPGPU support.
Apparently, that's like experimental
support.
Uh, and also this project
doesn't seem like it's really being
maintained much.
I would definitely do some looking
around to see that like what what is
actually good these days rather than
just jumping into something like this.
Will it is slow as Yeah, that's
what I kind of expected.
Manny skills goat. So, here's the funny
thing with Manny skill, right? Um
I So,
and I think that I don't think this is
maniskll specific. I think this is just
a general thing in robotics. All the
reward functions are wrong. All of them.
So, uh, in order to get this to work,
I had to make a small change, a small
but very significant change. And this
persists across all the robotics
environments. And in order to make this
thing train despite the reward being
wrong, essentially roboticists have come
up with this like alternate wrong
formulation of a different part of the
learning algorithm that counteracts the
first error.
So yeah, it's real weird. Um, and I will
be surprised if we can't just kind of
make a lot of stuff just work.
What is it that's wrong? I'm listening.
So, they do everything in robotics, you
all do state based state based reward.
So, like as I get closer to the goal,
for instance,
you get more and more reward. Uh but
that's not how rewards work
because
in order to fix this, right, the issue
with this is that you can farm reward at
the end. First of all, the reward
between one state and the next state is
a very small difference. You actually
have to like implicitly learn this very
small delta, which is very difficult.
But then even worse is that you can farm
reward just by like staying really near
the target. And then they fix this by
bootstrapping the reward across the
terminals in generalized advantage
estimation, which is wrong. You're not
supposed to do that because that's a
hard assumption that the uh terminal
state is the target state. Um the
correct thing to do is to use delta
based rewards where you do delta from
your previous state reward to the
current state reward and that's the
actual reward you give to the agent. So
I did that and immediately it started
working perfectly.
Shouldn't
say they
max no because of a detail of how they
know because of um the way generalized
advantage estimation works.
Like I saw this and I was like, "Oh
yeah, that's very clearly wrong."
And then the experimental data, the
experiment perfectly tracked
uh it perfect like the experimental
results perfectly tracked.
And now basically the only question is
um whether we can make puffer
substantially faster wall clock time for
the environment or not because uh we're
really like a lot of our demos are
optimized for way faster environments
than robotics. The question will be
whether you know there's actually
substantial uh improvement over this
versus the other libraries. But we would
expect that there should be if we tune
it.
Preach that to the whole man skill crew.
Uh yeah, I know Stone personally and
I'll be chatting with him about this
briefly because the cool thing about
this is it's like a 10line fix for their
entire library.
It's a 10-line fix.
And I don't think it's specifically
them. Like to be clear, uh Stone's
probably the most competent person I
know in robotics. And uh I had to deal
with Isaac Jim and like that they don't
know what the hell they're doing over
there. All right, that all the Isaac
code just sucks. But like my expectation
is if this is happening here, it's
probably happening everywhere. There.
feel like it will bring more attention.
Yeah, we're doing a little bit of
robotics just to see if robotics people
are interested in Popper. It's not my
main application area of interest, but
you know, if there's if there's some
industry robotics stuff that we can do,
uh we'll be happy to support that.
You talk already about multi-stage
training. What do you mean multi-stage
training?
multiple times.
You can do it. We don't usually do it.
Like,
yes, you can do that. We don't normally
have to, right?
If we actually get this environment into
a decent spot. Um,
if we get this environment into a decent
spot, maybe we'll do some robotics after
this later in the day. We'll see.
But I want to I want to actually have
like some cool tactical thing with this.
Kind of my fault. I'm supposed to be
super well rested on Saturday so I can
like really hammer out a lot of work.
But
I don't know. I kind of uh I kept myself
up half the night thinking about and it
was specifically thinking about quantum
recording which I don't know
quantum's really weird
what if the problem is so big it needs
multi-stage training then you do
multi-stage training
like you can load in policies into
puffer and keep training technically it
would be like a fiveline edition to make
sure you also load the optimizer state.
Uh full self-driving car. Oh,
uh you mean like this?
Like these this type of a thing?
Oops. Where is it?
actual real world self-driving car, not
an end to end RL problem,
mostly imitation learning.
But yeah, it's a fiveline change to
resume training.
Oh yeah, that's the other thing that we
try to do in Puffer Lib, right? We don't
have like we don't necessarily have
flags for every feature that you could
possibly imagine, but the code is
structured such that like way more often
than any other library, the thing that
you want will be like a five or 10 line
code change. It's just like in the main
trainer file or whatever. It won't be
like some horrible thing where you have
to like go rearchitect this like
gigantic amalgam of nonsense. just like
very quick.
I think that might even work. Magic.
It's like I think that probably just
works like load last checkpoint. I don't
know if it I it probably doesn't load
the optimizer state. I It would be like
a fiveline change. I don't know. I could
add it.
Literally nobody's needed it because of
how fast um the training is, but I could
figure that out.
Like the only reason you're thinking
that you might need that stuff at the
moment is just because you're training
on CPU, right?
Like here
Oh, this is where we've damn it. I love
how you actually like Google the thing
and they just
Oh, they changed their whole thing, huh?
And they increased the price as well.
Well, I know this still works
here.
You can go get yourself a 4090 for as
low as 35 cents an hour.
You say
if you don't have hardware,
good thing to do. Hey, Hyper.
Tyler, just who I was looking for.
Where's a physics PhD when you need him?
I've been studying quantum mechanics
and I am very confused.
I don't know. Is this a thing? Like, do
all physics students like study quantum
at some point or is this like a or do I
need to find somebody who is like a
specialist in quantum?
I don't know how it works.
I think Tyler's got like million years
worth of stream delay on X at the
moment.
What was the answer? You were right
about the delay.
What was what was what answer?
Oh, the answer is that because driving
is open-ended.
Uh, the reason that you don't end to end
RL driving is because you want something
that actually drives like a human and
it's a problem for which you have a huge
amount of human data. It's mostly
imitation learning.
You know any quantum mechanics, Tyler,
or is that outside of
outside of your area?
I know a bit.
So, the thing that's driving me insane
at the moment is
the definition of a record seems like
really circular as an experimentalist.
Well, yeah. I I'm actually I'm mostly
trying to figure this out from an
experimental perspective. So, the thing
that's driving me absolutely crazy is
that the experiment goes Oh, okay. So
yeah, you get this interference effect
that goes away uh when you record it.
Like, well, is that an artifact of
measurement? No, it just goes away no
matter how you measure it, even if you
do it in a way that doesn't disturb the
experiment at all. Oh, okay. So, it's
somehow the measurement the process of
measurement
uh messes with that. Well, how does that
work? Oh, well, you entangle the Let me
get this right. The particle becomes
entangled with the macroscopic detector
state. Well, what the heck does that
mean? Like, well, it's because you
create a record of it and it becomes
entangled with the record. Like, so if
you do this exact same thing, but you
don't create a record, then there's no
entanglement.
Well, yeah.
Okay. Okay. So, like if I just do this
experiment and I record the data in the
exact same way and I throw it away, then
there's no record. Well, yeah, it it
it's kind of like this really circular
thing where it's like they're defining
this very highle concept of making a
record and then there's basically no
explan like there's no mechanistic
explanation that I can see that fits
this data better than literally saying
that particles are omnisient.
That's the thing that's driving me
insane.
is inverse reinforcement learning.
Let me see.
is this?
You're learning the reward function.
Honestly, I haven't seen anything in
that in a while.
Learning reward. Yeah, I haven't seen
anything in that in a while.
I don't know if that whole line of work
went anywhere.
Uh, we need to orient this thing.
Shoot. How do we do this?
Long live behavioral cloning.
Yeah, that doesn't solve your problem
either, though.
Like online RL is kind of goated. It's
kind of hard to just beat online RL with
infinite data.
Is there like a quat rotate too or like
a quat look at
Are you making a Starcraft 2 end? Uh,
not. Here, I'll show you it. It's not
quite that.
You can run it way bigger with way more
agents, but um it's like a tactical
battle sim. So there drones, they're
fighters, they're bombers,
drone ship, there tanks, there's
infantry.
It's pretty much just a big battle sim.
think what to do with this. We need like
a quat look at or something.
Have you heard of action
derived rewards? Is that a thing?
Action? I don't know what that refers
to, Spencer.
Is it possible to explain this battle? M
specifically, observation space. Sure.
So, I have I think there like six or
seven different types of units. There's
infantry, there tanks, um there's
anti-air like trucks that are like
anti-air specifically. There are drones,
there are fighters, there are bombers,
and then there's this mother ship that
like launches drones. They all have
different effective speeds, turning
radiuses, and uh weapon ranges. So, they
all like behave a little bit
differently,
and you just have multiple armies, and
they fight. Um, and then reinforcement
learning will just control, same policy,
can control whatever ship because they
all have the same observation space. the
action spaces are interpreted
differently, but it still works. Um,
observation space, they see like their
own state. So, they see like their own
orientation, their own speed, heading,
uh, position, all that stuff.
And then they see, you know, the
distance to ground so that they don't
crash. And then they just observe like
the nearest 16 agents at the moment.
They observe like the position of the
nearest 16 agents and whether they're
friendly or hostile. That's all.
Is there like a look
matrix look at?
Yeah, this is not what we need because
we need quat version.
the data structure.
It's a bunch of floats.
It's literally just a like a bunch of
floats.
So, like
here's some data and we just like here
are the observations to the nearest
agent. You just add them in. And here
are the observations of all the agent
properties. They just get added in. It
knows what type of unit it is. They're
just written down like that. Goes into a
very simple neural net.
I think we lost Tyler.
Dang.
He's like the only one I know who's in
physics. I was hoping he'd bail me bail
me out of this mess.
So I
I like technically I guess we can just
run it like this for now and then we'll
have to figure out the look at
just do this
and then
how do we distinguish between scripted
versus not?
I believe you're asking a question
nobody has an answer to. Lovely.
Um,
so I I guess Tyler, and this is like
this is driving me crazy to the point
that like literally look at this. I
literally have Where's the shopping
cart?
Oh, yeah. I'm literally looking at
ordering lasers
to see if I can answer some of these
questions to set up some experiments.
Um,
great.
Yeah, I I'm trying to set up some
experiments that decouple measurement
from observability.
I took quantum. It was like X happens.
Don't question why. No one knows. Just
accept. Yeah, but that's not how my
brain works, Spencer.
Like if you tell me that like a normal
person would be like, "Yeah, okay,
cool." Me, it'll be like, "No,
that. I'm ordering lasers to figure this
out.
Any worlds decoherence quantum?"
I don't think any of that explains
observability itself, right? Like the
fact
I mean, you can get these things to be,
it seems like you can get these things
to be pretty dang decoupled. Like the
process of recording can be pretty dang
decoupled from the process of
measurement
and somehow
it still affects the interference,
right?
Does free will exist? I actually don't
care about that question at all.
You're observing all values in the list
using a fixed index. Yes. And uh imagine
to make that work, we sort the uh
because that's not a super smart thing
to do. It's just a fast thing to do. We
sort uh a we sort the nearby agents by
their distance to us. You always get
like the nearest one, the second nearest
one, so on and so forth.
Not a philosopher, huh?
Uh, I don't mind philosophy. I only mind
stupid philosophy.
I don't know. I find a lot of philosophy
just kind of dumb.
Then you track their coordinates or
position. We do deltas.
Maybe we can RL the hell out of
philosophy.
I think the RL would be like what what
the hell are you guys doing? go back to
running actual experiments on things.
Delta delta is just distance. So we just
do like you know your so it's we do like
the x distance from you to the target or
you could do angle and distance right.
I think we just do use uh we just use
standard uh xyz chords not spherical or
anything. There you go.
If you believe the universe itself can
be an observer. So yeah. So Tyler, this
is basically the thing that just bothers
me about all of this is like, and this
is something that scientists do, right?
You come up with all these like
absolutely insane deranged theories uh
that really don't make any bloody sense
if you think about them. It's like you
kind of just wrote down some math and
like ah yes, there's math. It makes
sense. But if you think about it, it
doesn't really make any bloody sense.
And literally like all these theories
fit the data exactly as well as just
saying that the particles are omnisient.
That's what drives me insane.
So if we like flip the typical, you
know, if we flip the typical view of
quantum like well look, we have these
models and they're very good at
predicting the real world, but we don't
really care if they're true or not.
they're very good at predicting the the
data and they let us run experiments
that I could say, okay, well, I can
equally well predict the real world by
just saying that the particles are
omnisient and they know when they're
being recorded.
And you do not have any more of a
satisfying mathematical explanation than
the one that I just gave.
If the universe is the observer then
that could be true
but like
I mean that's not saying the universe is
like that's like the same thing man
right
the thing is this is not speculation
right we literally have experiments
that match this as well as any other
theory. I don't know how to go deeper
from there. Yeah. So, the problem here
is if I try to like go back and forth
with a language model, they eventually
go off the rails and start telling me
insane things. But quantum is also
already kind of insane. So, I literally
don't know what we know versus what is
being made up. It seems like there is a
formal process to recording where it's
kind of hard to set up an experiment
that decouples measurement from
recording, but that seems like it should
be possible.
So anyways, the result of this
conversation is that I am probably going
to have to just buy some lasers.
Maybe I can at least tell find somebody
to tell me what to buy.
I don't end up buying the wrong
One agent calculating distance for 100
opponents.
100 agent calculating delta for 100
100 by 100 for deltas only. Yep.
But you probably don't need to know the
nearest 100.
You probably need like the nearest It's
probably like you need like the nearest
20 or something.
And then right now we're doing it
naively. So it's quadratic, but we could
make it n login if we were a little
smarter.
So there you go. All right, let me
actually figure out how to do this
before I drive myself crazy. I mean, I
literally I was
to give you an idea of my evening
yesterday. Uh, and this has been for the
past two days. I finished my stream
right before 6, had dinner, gone back to
do a bunch of exercise behind me while
watching quantum quantum physics
lectures,
and then spent the like several hours
after that just like looking stuff up
and thinking about stuff and trying to
make sense of all this. So, let's
actually get some RL done.
At least here we can get concrete
answers to things quite quickly.
like a decent evening. Yeah, except for
the part where I keep myself up half the
night trying to like, you know, keep
myself up half the night thinking about
what the is going on in quantum
model is just pattern matching.
But the thing is it's
there's a difference between a model and
an underlying phenomenon, right?
Like a correct model is is necessary but
not sufficient.
I don't know. This is what I get for
branching out and trying to study other
areas. Like originally this started as
let me study a bunch of other areas of
science to like look for cool
reinforcement learning problems. And now
this has become okay these other areas
of science are pretty cool and I do want
and I actually want to understand them a
bit deeper.
All models are wrong but some are
useful.
Okay. So that's that's fair, right? And
I can understand the math. Um
at least I probably you I could if you
as long as you don't ask me to solve the
equations. I actually at least I
understand the math as it's being
explained, right? like yes I understand
the I understand the wave function as a
model. I understand why it implies that
by knowing position the forier transform
collapses. Therefore you cannot
understand uh you have no information
about momentum. uh when one becomes a
direct delta the other becomes a uh a s
or cosine like I understand that
right
but that doesn't tell us the that's like
a model that doesn't actually tell us
the underlying thing or like why it
happens or anything like That
I don't know. Maybe um maybe by the time
I get to quantum field theory that will
have some answers.
From like the very little that I know,
it seems like maybe there's at least
something in there that gives us
something sort of plausible, but I don't
think it gives you a full a full
solution to any of this.
Physics is cool. I don't know why I
never did more physics. Probably because
I really didn't like having to like I
liked learning about physics. I didn't
like problem sets where it's basically
solve puzzles using all these equations.
be a quantum physicist that has the most
RL background in the field. That is
true. Well, I mean the thing is I could
kind of do that with any of the fields,
right? Which is kind of the point. Like
if I start learning a little bit about
all these fields that maybe I can
actually find cool problems where I
could apply RL to things.
Of course, quantum has to stop driving
me crazy for me to do that first.
I don't know. Mad Scientist arc.
I forgot we don't need this anymore.
for me to hack the world. So, yeah,
that's fine, right?
I understand it from that perspective,
Tyler. I'm trying to understand it from
another perspective.
Well, let's be real. I don't fully
understand it from that perspective.
It's going to take me like going back
through a bunch more math and a bunch
more lectures and things.
um to be like competent,
but I'm trying to understand it from
another perspective.
Yes. Industry is where you'll find most
worthwhile RL problems. Yeah, exactly.
I mean, basically the way that I view
the way I view this stuff with RL is
like all I got to do is find at least
one of these problems, right, that
nobody's thought about from an RL
perspective before or at least from a
competent RL perspective before that's
worth a billion dollars and then yay, we
have unlimited funding to do science
forever.
That's how I think of it.
If you want to find the secrets
universe, think in terms of energy,
frequency, and vibration.
Isn't that just flipping
That just flips you from particles by
default to waves by default, doesn't it?
But it's a dual interpretation. You need
both to explain the like to explain the
data, don't you?
To explain all the experiments that have
been done
more of an aether effective
is it fields aren't aether. I guess
they're I guess you can kind of think of
him as such. Maybe we should just Maybe
we should just like word swap the like
field with aether or was it ether?
Aether. I think it's ether usually,
right? It's spelled that way. It's
pronounced ether. Let's just like swap
field with ether and everybody will
suddenly be more interested in stuff.
Physicist
Physicists think they're wizards. They
can accomplish a lot.
I mean, it's kind of true of everything,
right?
When stuff gets boring, nobody wants to
work on it.
been one of the best things with RL is
like, you know what speeding up RL a
thousandx means? It means your
day-to-day work goes a lot faster
because it's less boring.
Okay, let me I think we are ready to run
this little experiment that I've kind of
I kind of just been chatting but in the
background I've sort of been thinking
about how to do this
cuz I think I can literally just do
times two.
physics where things is called a
constant.
Yeah, those are just that's just curve
fitting, right?
That doesn't bother me as much.
I would like it if I could find somebody
to actually tell me what I need for like
a decent experimental setup for uh
some of the stuff that you'd want to get
is like ludicrously expensive.
Like they technically
it's a hyperparameter.
Uh I mean like every everything is
always going to have a constant in front
of it, right? Sometimes it's just one
and like it's almost weird with there is
something special about the number one
this.
So yeah, like it turns out you can
actually just buy single photon sources
and detectors, but uh yeah, they're like
25 grand.
So, I was trying to do a um
I was trying to get like a laser
instead.
You're going to get to the point where
you need an Earthsized particle
accelerator.
Better get building it then.
Must be at least one hyper pram.
H.
I don't know. Constants have never
really
hasn't bothered me too much.
[Music]
Does this work?
I have a feeling this is seg faulting.
Yes. Fault. Okay.
Oh, and I know why.
That's That's more philosophy than
anything.
When it becomes philosophy, I get bored.
Like actual experiments things.
It's actually kind of amusing. And so
the thing that set me off on this whole
quantum shenanigans was I was watching
solid state chemistry and the professor
said that actually the Heisenberg
uncertainty principle should be called
the Heisenberg non-determinate
non-determination principle because it's
a problem of measurement. Oh, okay. That
actually makes way more sense. And then
you go over to quantum and they say
actually no. It seems that this kind of
just happens like regardless.
I mean that's
I just have to compile this with um
I think I'm uh I'm too tired to just
guess. I'm going to have to just compile
this with uh
have to compile this with debug on and
just figure it out.
Gotta love when uh random ass
environment screws you over.
What I get for merging this
Of
course, it's in a case statement where
it's like, "Please don't do that."
Did you see Tesla's full self-driving?
What do you mean? Did I see it?
video plus operation.
I like my family has a Tesla. Like
I've ridden in it. Yeah, it's good. Like
yes, they're going to self-driving.
Why is this me set wrong?
Oh.
Yes, vision data is plenty.
This is obvious.
What if there's a snowstorm? Same thing
that happens when people drive in
snowstorms, except, you know, better
because it has instantaneous reaction
time basically
and precise control.
any argument of the form that like the
camera shouldn't be able to drive in
snowstorm or whatever um leads to the
natural argument that people should be
banned from driving in snowstorms.
It's like a one to one. There's like no
difference. Like basically any case you
say well the camera can't handle this
situation. You're basically saying a
person can't handle this situation.
do think you can trust a system more if
it has extra feedback.
You can make it way safer than humans
without extra sensors. You probably
can't make it as safe as if you as if
you had all the sensors, but I would
imagine you can like reduce the number
of accidents uh by a factor of 10 over
humans
just with the existing ones.
And basically at the at the point that
so I mean
the thing that's really obnoxious about
self-driving and why I just don't like
it as a problem uh is because there's a
very large gap between the like
logically very clear thing that should
happen and what people will actually
accept. Right? Right. So, a lot like the
very clear thing that should happen here
is that once you reduce the number of
accidents per mile below the uh let's
say below the median human driver,
uh you're actively killing people by
keeping these things off of the road.
Like just straight up like number of
deaths with these on road is strictly
going to be greater than number of
deaths without these things on road. So
clearly these things should be legalized
as soon as you beat that benchmark
convincingly. Uh, but what's going to
happen in practice is it's going to have
to be like 10x lower at least because
every time there is an accident, the
media is going to blow it up and like
Congress is going to blow it up and like
there's going to be all sorts of
legislation. Uh, where like for
absolutely no reason. Uh, so like it's
kind of just a problem that just makes
you hate people more than anything else
because like you can solve the tech
problem sufficiently and then like okay
we can make it 10x better from here
but that's not actually how it's going
to turn out.
Number they aim for is one accident per
400k. I I don't think it gets deployed
on that is the thing. I don't think you
get full deployment on that number
because of the reason that I just said.
What if human vision is a decoder that's
impossible to replicate? that would take
it. That seems like exceedingly unlikely
rainbows and Teslas approach that number
in better. Yeah, that's the problem,
right?
Like I hate it when you end up with like
it's not even a tech problem, right? The
answer is incredibly obvious and then
you just have this existing class of
like I don't know useless bureaucrats in
the way
Yeah, it's a political problem.
It's like literally like, "Oh yeah, my
job is to show up to the office, look
important, stole technological progress,
and kill people."
That's literally what it it boils down
to. Of course, they're not going to say
it that way. They're going to say
something super lofty sounding, but
that's what it boils down to.
The heck is wrong with this?
Surely it can't be sealing here, right?
Oh, you know what it is? No, it is
seging there. I'm dumb.
I know what it is. Ipotent
AI.
Yeah. And the funny thing about this is
right like this discussion
is like yeah I agree I don't I don't
want humans to be like relegated to this
like useless position but like the
current alternative
the current alternative is the leaders
that we have now which
You can look at that and that's not a
comment on current political anything.
That's a comment on politics in general.
But then the other like the other side
of that, right, is that the AIS are
currently they're made by people and
they suck. Like the language models are
kind of crap right now.
Like at the moment I trust a competent
person way more than I trust a language
model. That will eventually change.
Maybe, maybe not. I don't know.
Architecturally, like AI will get
better. I don't know if language models
alone get to that point.
Neural MMO, can you please, my name is
Joseph. Neural MMO is my main project
from my PhD. Can you please guide me on
how to start reinforcement learning? I
need it and I can't find any proper
path. I got you covered. hover.ai
docs or not docs, my bad. You can go to
there after reinforcement learning quick
start guide. Read this. Read the
articles in here that it tells you to
read. It's like a handful of blog post
and a few academic papers. So, do that
in chunks. You don't have to do it all
at once. Do like this plus maybe one or
two blog posts. All right? and then go
over to the docs
and implement a basic reinforcement
learning environment from scratch
following these docs.
And if you have trouble with that, come
ask for help over here. This is how you
get into reinforcement learning. This is
how almost all of our contributors have
gotten into reinforcement learning. It
works even if you do not have like
remotely any background. It'll just take
a little bit longer. You just have to do
it.
I've made it as easy as I possibly can
with reward engineered by a human.
Sometimes
uh sometimes it depends on the problem
in the reward
to robot. I honestly I don't Yeah, I
don't I don't really care about the
whole political side of of all this
stuff.
It's kind of just like we're probably
going to come up with the dumbest pro
the dumbest possible way to handle all
of it. And like there's very little that
you can do about that. The only thing
that we can do is build good tech.
Go.
Average
Oh, that's going to have to improve
eventually, man. That's going to have to
improve eventually.
My hope is that we develop tech that
actually allows us to be smarter
because I can tell you with all the
stuff that I've built, like most of the
time, I feel like barely smart enough to
make progress in all the stuff that I'm
doing, right? Like barely.
There are like clear clear areas and
like gaps in my own abilities where it's
like it's just straight up I don't know
why my brain doesn't let me do this
Like certain types of symbolic
manipulation and stuff. It just doesn't
work for me.
I don't know.
Let's see if this works.
worst performing student.
I might
PhD graduate. That's still not good
enough, man.
That's still not good enough.
Welcome, SPY.
Today's discussion topics include
multi-agent swarms, tactical battle
sims, quantum physics,
and uh long-term AI progress. Welcome to
Saturday stream.
This thing hasn't seeded yet.
Let me have more coffee.
I don't happen to have anybody watching
that knows quantum physics and can tell
me what lasers to order, right? That
would just be too lucky.
Single-handedly comes up with diffusion
model.
It depends. Math is one axis, man. Like
there are a lot of really really good
math people at MIT and like far far
fewer people at MIT that have like some
sort of broad perspective on what to do
with the math that they know.
Garbage. Garbage. Garbage.
Okay, this runs
Let's see if we can get the scripted
thing to like do something.
How prioritized replay improve overall
agent action selection? Are you asking
about the original prioritized
experience replay or the version that we
have in puffer lip? Because they're two
very different things.
Please clarify.
Yes. What? Original or the puffer one?
Okay. So, puffer replay it's only done
over the experience that's collected in
a single epoch. Okay. So, it's it's a is
it's as on policy as on policy data can
be. So, we're not taking data from
previous epochs. Okay. And specifically
what we're doing is we're using the
prioritize replay sampling criterion
because prioritize replay is just that.
It's a sampling criterion. It tells you
what data to sample in what frequency
based on in this case the advantage
function. We're using this to guide uh
how we sample from the experience
collected just during this one last
epoch uh into many batches. So instead
of going over the data in chunks, we're
sampling it according to the prioritized
replay uh math for sampling. That's all
we're doing. And this allows you to uh
bias the algorithm towards higher
information trajectory segments if you
want to think of it that way.
That is what we do.
Double check my email real quick.
If I have a stream of data, I don't need
to think of LSTM manually. Just use the
damn LSTM, man.
There's like no reason not to.
Our
L we have LSTM support for everything
out of the box and the LSTM is literally
the far the fastest part of the network.
Like I can train a million parameter
LSTM at a million steps per No, I'm
sorry. I can train a 4 million parameter
LSTM at a million steps per second. All
right, the LSTM is not a bottleneck.
It's slow in other libraries because
they're bad.
That's it.
Uh yeah, this is super freaking fast.
The hell
fault.
do this.
It's not that we think that LSTM is like
the holy grail of architectures or
something like in 2019. It's just it's
really fast.
And it's like it's the most stable fast
thing. Does that make sense? Like
transformers are just not fast. At least
any variant that we've found is just not
fast. And also they're a pain in the ass
because like you get all these like off
these like misalign trajectory segments
in RL. And uh you have to run a
transformer on that context, which like
admittedly I could figure out how to do.
It wouldn't be terrible, but even then I
just don't think it would be fast. Like
fundamentally
they aren't linear in time. So unless
you actually had a good
even linear in time wouldn't be good
enough, frankly, because right now it's
constant in time. Yeah, literally it's
constant in time right now. And then
they go to quadratic in time. The best
ones are linear in time and those don't
even work.
Things slow, man. Super slow.
Okay. Why are
are bots this fast?
Got these guys that are going at a
normal speed and then these guys that
are just like zoom.
Okay.
Oh,
forgot this
dummy.
Yeah, there we go.
Huh?
There they are.
What is your goal with the lasers? Are
you trying to make an interferometer?
Uh
I basically want to run a double slit
experiment that
uh in which there are no moving parts
that change between the on and the off
state. So the recording of data is
maximally isolated
or the the recording of data is
maximally isolated from the measurement
of data such that the recording off
state produces interference.
Side project. Side project. Quantum
physics research.
I do here.
This should now make these things fly
much more reasonably maybe.
some weird thing happening when they get
close to each other.
Take full
I was like looking to see if I uh if I
had responses on the other environment
that I work on and they go, "Oh yeah,
Saturday. Most people don't work
Saturday." Duh.
What have I done that's silly here that
causes this behavior?
We should also just figure out what the
seg fault is, right?
But like look at this behavior. Ready?
So, they're going to get close and
they're going to accelerate.
Yeah, it's like they just get super
fast.
Uh, how did
I have something getting divide by zero,
right?
Yeah.
They start accelerating when they get
like relatively close.
Anybody
see it?
It have to be this somehow, but I don't
see it.
I mean, I could just clip it, but I
don't want to just like that. No, this
this should be the correct
weird distance.
Is it because I have to divide by square
root?
I think it's got to be.
It's got to be this.
I was trying to save compute, but I
think it might have been nonlinear.
See if this is it.
Yep, that was it.
Okay. So, they don't know how to turn
towards each other.
So, uh they don't actually fight.
But yeah, that's the that's the issue.
Me dumb. Square root not linear
function. Duh.
I'm going to leave this up for a couple
minutes. We'll see if it's stable. I'll
leave this. So you can watch it. If
anybody has any ideas how to do the math
to like turn these towards the target,
it's probably just some sort of vector
multiply, some clot multiply. I will be
right back. a couple quick things and we
will continue on this and we will uh
once we get the ships to turn towards
each other basically we'll have like a a
simple scripted opponent to play against
and then the idea is that we'll be able
to actually get a reasonable evaluation
metric which is win rate versus the
opponent or whatever. Uh unlike the
current thing where it's all selfplay so
you can't really get like a consistent
metric and then we can optimize versus
that and then hopefully that'll give us
some reasonable tactical behavior. We
take the same hyper prams, we throw it
on selfplay, and we get some like cool
thing to happen. Be right back. Oops. Be
right back.
Okay.
What's the procedure
to connect Neptune AI?
So,
you literally just make an account and
then you paste your API key in. It's all
it is.
And you just do d- Neptune
and it'll pick it up.
All right.
Yep,
that'll work.
You got to pip install Neptune.
Obviously,
what is tag? Tag just assigns it like a
little group in the dashboard so you can
sort your experiments. You don't have to
tag it. It'll just go under the default
tag if you don't tag it. We use it for
mostly sweeps and like specific games
and stuff.
Neptune's authenticating. So yeah. So
technically I believe there's a default
project like Ablation somewhere.
Yeah. So right here there's also this
project name. You should probably set
these
token product. Yeah. So, there's a
default config. You can set these from
command line train.name like or you can
just edit them in the default config.
Either way,
you'll be good.
Okay. So, We unfortunately have some
vector math to deal with,
which should be easy, but for whatever
reason, never is.
Isn't it literally Okay, all I need to
do is I need a quaternian to rotate
towards the target, right?
Wait, rotate by quitterium.
using UV. That's fine. So I think then
you can do here. Look, if you just do
puffer train uh puffer
help, it'll just tell you
- Neptune-
Neptune name and Neptune project
apparently should do it
and let me know if that doesn't work.
Token isn't uh you don't pass token like
that. So token you pass as an end
variable or as an export. That's part of
Neptune. So if when you do like get my
API token or whatever, it'll tell you
how to export it,
it gives you the thing to just paste in
or to put in your bash RC or whatever.
End. Yes, you put it in the end or
whatever. Make sure you source the file.
There you go.
How do you do this, man? So weird.
I'm going to plug this into Grock
against my better judgment.
I don't know what it is.
Whenever I get to geometry stuff with
like
vector map for geometry, it's like I my
brain just stops working.
I don't know why.
I have no idea why this is unintuitive.
environment.
Yeah, it has all the information.
That's just Neptune. That's like Neptune
standard doc. So not puffer.
quturnian from vector 3 to ve did it
just make up a function that doesn't
exist?
I think it did. modify
this.
Huh?
Some reason they didn't shoot each
other.
Okay, so now they shouldn't actually get
to be on top of each other. We'll just
have to figure out why they don't
actually fire.
is puffer lilib and by default a
parallel or sequential?
Uh
kind of both. So our most of our ocean
environments the way they work is uh on
each core you can simulate many
environments in series that is the n of
num ms param and then vecnum ms will
allow you to multi-core those you have
multiple cores within multiple ends in
serial on each core but then across
cores is parallel
I don't know what happened there.
Roll through it.
Here we go.
Uh yeah, that's not supposed to happen.
Yeah, I was looking up that thing. So,
the thing is that experiment is usually
done with um polarizing filters, isn't
it, Tyler?
which are a physical obstruction
and also like clearly have the like the
effect of basically doing a change of
basis where you project the polarized
like so all light is gone on one axis
but then you project it on a different
coordinates so then you end up with half
of that back I didn't find that
experiment like or at least that version
of it particularly useful
I've also literally only been studying
quantum for like three days. I knew
nothing about quantum mechanics at all
three days ago. I've kind of just been
binging lectures and like reading a
bunch of stuff in my off hours.
Okay. So somehow these things they just
get like
got quantum entangled reinforcement
learning agents.
You can see here
see how that we figure this out.
Okay. So D.
This does. They should stop
like close to each other now.
And they should be fighting here.
It's actually a good question why
they're not firing at each other here.
I think the angle's probably computed
wrong.
Yeah, there we go.
Whether the damage values are reasonable
or not, who knows? But it is the angle
somehow.
This branch of physics makes my head
hurt.
I don't know. It's it's been very cool.
The thing is like
the experiment that I'm trying to
conduct and I'll I'll tell you more once
I think about it a little bit but like
if the experiment
if the experiment that I have in my head
works the way that
um I think it should work according to
the predictions of quantum mechanics
then it would be like
it would essentially be like a thing
that would just completely completely
break your understanding of reality
without you having to know anything
about physics, if that makes sense.
And it would also have a bunch of like
actual useful applications of the tech
as well. So,
physics cool.
I need to buy some lasers. Apparently,
I also have to look up safety
precautions for working with lasers.
I've been trying to figure out like
because I'm looking into all these
different branches of science now, many
of which have like are actually they do
actual lab work. Um
I kind of need to like go get myself lab
trained for a bunch of different areas
somehow.
definitely buy some GL. Yeah, I probably
should like figure out how I can go get
myself trained for like a bunch of
different types of lab work because I
really have never done that type of
stuff. You know,
it's the one very unfortunate things
about working uh in AI is like you don't
really need any equipment to do all this
cool stuff that we do, but that also
means you don't have any experience
working with actual equipment of any
type. You kind of just sit here and type
and then you make crazy happen. But
then as soon as you want to do something
that doesn't just involve typing, you're
like, "Hey, I don't know what to do."
walk. I'm a mia
less than five
mango watts.
I think it was seven.
But it's the thing is it goes through an
attenuator as well.
Yeah, it's seven.
It's this thing.
But then I think that you you basic I
think that you try to like take the
power down or like block most of it so
that you get a a relatively
fewer number of photons out of it.
But I think like technically it's
dangerous if you set it up wrong or
whatever cuz obviously the source is
still seven mega uh seven mills or
whatever.
I don't know. The lasers are actually
super cheap. I would love to know why
some of this other stuff is so bloody
expensive.
No.
Also, why it's nuked my shopping cart?
Manufactured in USA. Oh, I don't know.
Maybe that's why lasers like that 20
years ago were bloody expensive.
Yeah. I co-founder house drama slop
show. What?
Yeah. I don't I I really don't care
about the dumb things that SF people do.
Like I I really don't care.
I'm really kind of just sick of the
whole
the whole like all of AI being B2B SAS
idiot wear is like that needs to go.
Come on, we're making cool tech. Let's
actually throw it on things that matter.
in light has potential
clout chasing. Yeah. Which is just lame
as
Like Tyler, do you know do you know what
the easiest way would be for me to like
figure out uh what I need and where to
like what I should get for this type of
basic optic setup. But I you need like
an optics breadboard and like you put it
on I think it's like a meter or one by
one or 2x two meter surface or whatever.
And like I think that there's some stuff
with like the lighting and all that like
I need to figure that stuff out.
I don't know. I could technically stream
all this stuff, too. I have a spot right
behind me. Just put this freaking table
down behind me and we do we do quantum
physics experiments on stream. That
sounds fun.
I mean, it looks like the basic setup
can be obtained for a few grand, which
is like I'm willing to spend that or uh
do cool science.
particularly when there's a possibility
that I discover something new.
Okay, I think I see how I did this
wrong.
distance three angle.
Let me know what you're thinking about
buying. Oh yeah, I can send you the
list. I got to finish putting it
together. Um, which I'll probably do
like tomorrow in my spare time.
Nanc pyometers for electron beam.
Version interferometer for nancond.
Okay, that's actually that's a different
application but pretty similar
equipment.
Yeah, that's pretty similar equipment
because it is kind of just optics
equipment for a lot of the quantum
if this does anything. So, this should
give us the result that the drones fire
at each other consistently.
Yep. So, they fire.
That looks consistent to me.
That does it. We just have to do this
for the rest of our uh
Oh, wait. Hang on.
Yes, that does it. So, we just have to
do this for the rest of our um
attack functions.
by
word vector
target.
This looks good.
Uh, this one's easy.
And this one
anti-air.
This one does have a range.
Wait. Attack any air.
Bomber
ground air.
That's it.
That makes sense why the ships were
flying in this weird fashion.
Find it pretty weird that he skills with
the power and the beam.
I have not even gotten there, Tyler.
I gotta figure a lot of stuff out still,
man.
So basically I so first of all the
quantum stuff is just awesome and like
it's messing with me. So I think there's
a possibility I actually might with the
experiments I'm thinking about if they
work in remotely the way that I think
that they might then I could actually
discover something really cool or at
least let's say I could present
something that is known in a way that's
like
very
striking and actually would like it
would change the way that a lot of
people look at stuff potentially. But
then separately, I'm kind of just trying
to understand a lot of like low-level
physics. Uh because it applies to
everything, right? It applies to
chemistry, it applies to physics itself,
it applies to material science. And I'm
sort of starting to think about like
low-level real world simulation
uh for, you know, aiding scientific
discovery and for advancing science and
how we think about doing that.
Okay, so this looks way better. This
looks like way more reasonable,
right? Army's doing things.
Why are you guys going over there? That
doesn't make any sense to me.
Oh, it's cuz these ones are not
controlled by our scripted AI.
That's fine then.
That's actually a good indicator maybe.
Yeah, because like this army is hunting
that army and it's kind of doing an okay
job of it.
Cool.
So, we can actually train versus this
now
and maybe get like a actual real result.
I was baffled about what's tried.
I don't think we have though.
When I look around, I see like so many
things that have not been done, man.
But perhaps it's because I'm coming in
from an outside perspective, right? Like
the things I would think of are very
very they're going to be very very
different from the things that you'd
think of based on being trained in the
field. And half of them aren't going to
make any sense, but who knows? Maybe
some end up being novel.
I got a pretty good track record of
doing that within reinforcement learning
as well to be fair.
Okay. Yeah. So fixing those dynamics
immediately fixed a whole bunch of the
problems we had
about score
hardly find the sol problem.
Outlook.
I don't know. We'll see.
That tends to be the thing that I'm
usually pretty good at,
to be fair, is like coming up with weird
that nobody's thought of.
I'm not beating anyone in the I'm not
out like I'm not solving equations
better than the next guy. I'll tell you
that
a lot of the stuff I've done in RL was
just like a dramatic perspective shift
on how the field was done before.
Where exponentials
of error?
kind of thinking needed for progress. I
don't know. It's been somewhat It's been
pretty effective at least in the domains
where I've worked.
Like I kind of think of it this way,
right? Like when I'm at MIT and there
are like a ton of people who are really
good at the math, right? And there are
like hundreds of RL papers on the math
and we're kind of stuck. Well, I'm sure
as hell not making any progress just by
thinking about the math more, right?
Like the core algorithm more. That's how
I came up to the approach that I came
with Puffer, right? I was like looking
at the type of stuff that fundamentally
people were not looking at.
1 megawatt 1 matt laser with a 1 millm
squared beam
volts per meter for high intensity laser
changes with density.
Uh yeah, I would just have to look at
the
I would need to go look at the the
freaking uh I'd need to go look at like
the reference equation for that.
The grow with like square or something.
I don't know.
For what it's worth, I am actually at
least now trying to learn enough of the
math quantum. I kind of have to
Accelerate
more particles more compact with high
intensity light source.
I I think the only thing I need for my
specific experiment is I need to filter
it down to a reasonable number of
particles,
which I think I think that's just a
filter. There
OD filters we say every second there's
high probability
I don't need second level re I literally
all I need to know is like that there is
still some interference
um and it's not like because I have too
many go like too many going through
simultaneously
like I can have like ideally I would
like to have on the order of a thousand
photons going through per second and be
able to tune it up to a million for
instance
which I think I should be able to do
with uh setup I have or the setup I'm
thinking of getting
What are our current rewards?
Negative one for crashing
0.25. 25. We're hitting uh an enemy
curse a bunch. Yeah,
we're going to have to at least crack
one code of the universe with all the
research I'm doing, right?
Something
kind of made RL work. Pretty cool.
We in a position to make it happen.
A lot of this it just takes a lot of
work. A lot of this stuff does. Can do
it though.
Why wouldn't the learning here be
stable, right?
With the score specifically,
this could literally be hyper prim sweep
though at this point.
We should kind of just run one like go
set up a quick hyper pram sweep.
Oh yeah, hang on.
That's kind of doing something.
It's just unstable. I think
it starts learning and you get these
crashes.
Let's figure this out how we're going to
set this up.
Even need to sweep this stupid thing, do
we?
Yeah, let's just let's set up a sweep
and then we can go do robotics in the
meantime. It'll be a smart thing to do.
Go grab the 5090 box.
I don't know why I just tried to SSH to
my website.
Oh, cool. Stone says he'll drop by after
uh after brunch. So, we'll actually have
a robotics pro to uh help us out with
what we're doing.
Okay, so they're battle trains pretty
Back.
Cool. So this should what this should do
is in the background this will run a
bunch of experiments and it'll basically
just tell us whether there are better
hyperparameters we can use to get
something to learn and if they're not
then there's still something wrong with
the end. If it does then yay we have
cool uh cool results.
What?
Okay.
Make sure that this is actually running.
See, then um if this actually is good,
then we'll start on the robotics with be
able to do uh let's actually just start
pulling the the hyper prams from this
sweep.
Oh.
So, here are all the experiments we ran.
Here are all the good experiments that
we ran.
And here are all the grade experiments
that we ran.
So what we'll do is we'll just take
this.
We'll pick whichever of these did uh the
fastest.
Looks to be I like the look of this um
purple curve right here.
Grab this purple curve.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
back.
But really, this is like only a partial
sweep. I don't know if we did um max
not
do like this. Yeah.
64 BPT horizon from the sweep. Okay.
Very very high clip co.
Apparently I had lambda wrong.
and gamma of 088
with our tuning.
Actually, I'd like to figure out for
stone real quick the uh the spread of
gamas.
Do that super high learning rate.
prior replay co-ops.
And uh this is is this 15 mil steps?
15 mil steps.
Kind of weird because it doesn't need 15
mil steps, right?
Come back to that one.
Then we have our coats here.
Our mostly sane kind of low value
function clip. Really care about these
trace clips.
Uh update epox one. So I don't think I
swept that.
and total time steps.
It's kind of good by uh before that, but
we'll do 15
15 mil
to match
We'll see.
Let's just run this.
And in the meantime,
just do a little analysis.
I should have added a score variable so
I don't have to read my uh my charts,
but
okay.
Did you see the post with the RF filter
made by AI that looked like a QR code?
That was hilarious.
I didn't see that.
Could be good for micro strip
mic. What? What do you mean micro strip
problems?
table runs from 0.8 gamma to 0.9 gamma.
What this says
a lot of RF is on a PCB. Microchip is
essentially having some conductive
material on the bottom and top and a
substrate between
geometries of the structure. Oh, okay.
Yeah. So, this is like the type of stuff
where I'd need to learn more about the
actual problem and like what it would
take to simulate stuff, right? And this
is actually one of the things I'm trying
to do with quantum is to like go as low
level as possible and then build back up
because like if you have to simulate
stuff on the level of what is described
by quantum mechanics, you're screwed,
right? Like it's just the most
ridiculously expensive sim ever. And
then if you go up and you have to
simulate stuff on an atomic level, okay,
that's very slow. Like get away with
just simulating molecules and like vague
estimates of forces. They can go up with
simulating just like material behaviors
and it goes up from there.
Me find that post.
Huh.
Yeah, that's a really really dumb
application of generative AI. RL would
crush that
if you had a fast sim.
you basically it comes down to how fast
you can make a good enough like a good
enough sim of the RF board. Man,
as you know, I talk about the amount of
data we train on all the
Yeah, stone things better.
How's comment? Yeah, I don't know what
that is.
I do suspect that a lot of these Sims
are just slow.
Ah, here we are. Our perfect
are perfect solve.
That's the battle sim.
Nice.
Uh, and this thing ran
less than 5 minutes.
So maybe we go find a harder tasks.
Someone told me some of them.
See what he sent me originally.
I got to scroll way up. I apparently I
bothered him a whole bunch about a lot
of things.
Going to have some nice results.
Peg insertion is unsolved.
Peg insertion side V1
push T.
Okay.
Egg insertion
side one.
See what this does.
Trains able
enough rate, I guess.
So, let's see what they
their docks.
This is peg insert insertion.
Oh, we can do that.
Yeah, we can freaking do that.
A peg.
Oh, do they not have it? No, they do.
It's right here.
Okay. So, it's not that bad in the sense
that it's supposed to start learning
uh after
some number of mills.
Our returns are not going to match at
all is the annoying bit. But
the turn goes up immediately and then it
takes a while.
Okay.
Word goes up.
annoying
how long this type of stuff takes.
Um, you know what?
This is GPU bound, right?
Why don't we like 6x this speed?
Get this running DD. Uh, get this
running DDP.
They probably don't even have the
ability to do that.
We'll probably We'll just do that.
Um
Huffarell is programmatic interface. Uh
yeah, you can just import stuff from
there if you want to use it as an API.
Time to fix broken power supply. Very
fun.
We are doing more physics stuff. So do
drop by from time to time.
use command line interface or API. So
because I'm developing the project, I
have a local install of it from source
and I do a mix of editing command line
args for experiments and editing code
directly.
That's mostly because I'm the developer
of it, though.
Yep, you can do that.
There's an example as well like in the
docs there all these examples. One of
them shows you like basic usage of the
programmatic interface
config back end.
Yeah. So if I'll show you if you go here
examples
puffer importable.
There you go.
Let me know if you run into any issues
with that.
Not we will
impressed with puffer liib. Thank you.
Very easy to learn. That's the goal.
It's very lightweight, so now they're
not going to be like options for
literally everything you want to do.
Sometimes you'll have to edit code, but
it's meant to be very lightweight.
You know, RLI is a nightmare.
Dang heavy.
domain to upload tutorial.
Always just make GitHub pages.
RL mind.
That's funny. You were able to get that.
I got lucky that I got a puffer. Nobody
had it
like my puffer domain.
Going like puffer. The puffer is so
friendly.
Look. Very friendly.
Very friendly fish.
They're very curious, too. If you've
ever been like snorkeling, they will uh
they'll just come up to you and be like,
"Hey, yo, what's up?
cuz that works lovely.
Let's uh add this
There we are.
Now we also have to
How do you convert the those render for
website.
Um, so in our C environments,
yes. Well, it doesn't natively run
Python. No, but we have environments
that are in C, right? We uh we have a
build ocean script. It scripts build
ocean or whatever. And there's a web GPU
option. If you just build for web with
mcript inton,
copy that directly into a website.
I built it.
It's one of several environments. That's
like maybe a few days worth of work,
something like that.
like of the environments that we have on
the website.
Um, I built neural MMO 3, Moa, Snake,
Convert,
uh, the sample environments down here.
Yeah, I've built like a few of them,
right?
By far the most complex of any of them
uh to build was neural MMO.
This was something like truly
complicated
by a mile.
How do you manipulate 3DN? What do you
mean?
How do I draw it? We use Ray Lib for
drawing about it. It's like a very
lightweight like just header library
and see.
Yep.
Very nice. I like that library a lot.
Okay, so we have this going here.
We're going to start on
distributed stuff in a second.
Is that faster than JavaScript? Yes.
And you would also literally have to
rewrite all of the code in JavaScript,
which I know an RL team that has done
that and it's horrible.
Not fun JavaScript. Be right back.
Uh-huh. This is now This is doing
something.
This is still not doing anything.
Possibly his hypers just aren't good.
The return is very very low.
That's interesting.
Oh man, Kyle's got this massive thread.
horrifying. This is I have no idea what
the heck what I don't know what's going
on in robotics land, but uh yeah,
sketchy.
Okay. So, this did not replicate the
result.
Something must be different here. Yeah.
Oh, it's probably the config isn't
pulled, right?
Yeah. I'm dumb. Okay. Try that again.
Config this time.
will this fly in the meantime.
man scale render is not written in C.
I don't think so. We do not have that on
the website.
Oh, I see what I did.
How do you publish that then? We don't
have Manny skill on the website.
Like I on like almost nobody has live
demos of RL on the website. That's not
standard. That's pretty much just us and
like maybe a couple other people.
So, in the meantime,
this ain't working.
That works.
Does Puffer CLI work on globally? What
do you mean on globally?
Uh it should work everywhere provided
that um
uh I bu I think that the caveat is like
if you're loading custom configs need to
run it from the directory of those
configs because there isn't a variable
that tells you where custom configs go.
Okay, this works. Lovely.
Now, what we get to do is something very
fun. Get to see how fast it goes.
Um,
how to pass that device.
The args of train is a dictionary.
You look at it, you'll see that it has
all the attributes from the help menu.
It's not like a special fancy class or
anything. You can just add it to the
dictionary.
You can use our CLI parser if you want.
Our CLI parser is also in PRL. Um or you
can just add it to the dictionary
however you'd like.
We'll see if this gets us distributed
any skill.
Hopefully it does.
Well, I think it's up to us to get Manny
skill to work on um multiGPU.
If I use device equal MPS, what happens?
No idea.
What's MPS? Mac stuff.
Try it. What happens?
5 minutes later.
No, it should be fine.
works. There you go. I'm not doing
anything that should make it not work,
though,
you know.
Doubled PF. There you go.
Fortunately, double of a small number is
still a small number, but it's better
than nothing.
Second fly for me to kill. I can't.
We're officially fly free in this
building for the time being.
set up when they advertise how fast
their chips are
and then give you one less than onetenth
of one GPU perf
update doc Hey,
silicon.
Uh, I guess I could do that. Yeah,
it's still going to be like the things
are all still going to be slow. Is that
Is that actually using the full
Oh, that I could do. Is is it actually
um
is that using the entire chip? Like the
entire chip still only gets you 260k.
Only six of them are working.
Well, you can figure out then why the
hell that doesn't work. But
total
um
well, apparently they don't work like
CUDA corores then because
uh the back end should call should use
all of them basically.
annoying.
I'm increasing 10%. I don't know
your memory, your system memory.
VRAM is GP is GPU memory.
0%.
I I don't know how that works with MPS.
Like you don't have It's probably the
monitoring tool is expecting CUDA and
like it's not going to work for MPS to
tell you, but like it Yeah, it's going
to be like that runs pvml or whatever.
do with This
is what
make. Well, no, because that'll put your
device on
that'll put your device on CPU
if uh you're not on a Mac.
think we could add max support natively.
Uh I
I'd have to think about a good way to do
it with the config,
but yeah, possibly could do
it. You have to be a little careful
because if you hardcode devices like
that, there are other things you can
Take
The stone just confirmed.
have a name machine.
Try this.
30k.
I'll show you the crazy part about that
in just a second.
Okay, so this apparently runs. Cool.
Okay, watch this.
Uh, done. This is not going to work, I
guess. Okay. Puffer train. Puffer.
250K on CPU.
That hardware just sucks.
It is unfortunately that simple.
I used to use Macs growing up as well.
like I used Max for like six years or
whatever.
Um, and it's just like
it boggles my mind that people use them
as much as they do in tech for like
anything.
Yeah. As was I. And it's just like,
yeah, these things are awful.
They're just I I don't understand like
why people use them. They're just they
suck for any actual computing. And then
like okay, you can use them to SSH to
your other hardware, but then you just
have like an overpriced like thing that
doesn't even have the same development
environment as you're going to use for
your actual jobs. So now you have to
debug your stupid Mac errors in addition
to your stupid normal errors. It's just
like terrible.
I can't even tell you the amount of
errors where it's like but like it like
doesn't work on my Mac and it's just
like god damn
Yeah. So, this actually does go to um
device
Last.
Go
idx. Practice.
this you and me on live.
Uh let me see. I think that according to
the live stream,
no there are five people watching
according to this plus maybe some on X.
It doesn't actually tell you X. Just
tells you uh YouTube and Twitch.
Not everyone chats. People just leave
stream on in the background while
they're doing work or other stuff. often
times.
Yeah, shoot.
How much does compress increase
the length of the observation space? It
depends what you do in the process. It
the answer could be not at all. Like if
I just add a bunch of extra zeros to the
observation space, it's not going to
change Anything?
time in memory.
Um,
that depends a little bit more.
So, typically it'll increase the
bandwidth,
the CPU to GPU transfer bandwidth, which
can add a little bit of overhead.
It's not going to make the network very
much slower though. It just makes the
encoding layer slower. That's it.
When you make the the observation size
really big, you like the biggest thing
is the CPU GPU bandwidth transfer being
annoying.
And actually, we have ways to mitigate
that. Um, I just haven't gotten around
to doing that yet.
Something is screwy here.
Make tank n.
Oh, those obs are tiny. Those are like
um
121 bytes.
11 by 11 with uh Uint 8.
The bigger M's have like maybe 2 to 4
kilobyte observations.
Neural MMO 3 is 1700 bytes.
OBS are on the wrong device. Interesting
enough.
OBS be on the wrong device.
Big CSV as a data set from a continuous
envis log.
Well, you certainly aren't going to put
CSV in. You're going to put the contents
of CSV. I don't know how you have a CS.
How do you have a big CSV
as an RLN beenput?
know what the end is.
and pass cuda n to thim back end.
Okay,
20 columns on it.
I I don't understand how you have 20 col
like
Your observation is what the agency is
at one specific time step, right?
So if your column is data and then rows
are the time, you know, you get like one
entry, then it's probably only one row
of the table.
Well, then if it's one row, it's 20
floats, which is nothing. So, you're
fine,
right?
fixed length each time full row. Yeah,
something like that
should Okay.
need to do anything. If I want to show
agent previously observed data, just use
the LSTM.
You're trying to do non-standard stuff
without knowing like without even like
knowing the basic thing first, which
will almost certainly solve your
So the LSTM by definition, right, you
show it one observation, it makes a
decision. It has memory. It can choose
to remember stuff. It can learn to
remember stuff rather from previous data
points.
Looks like uh I'm jumping on a call with
Stone.
We get to do a robotics arc.
Whoops. Can you How do I plug that in
with pop? It's literally the default.
Don't have to do anything.
Like as long as your config has the
recurrent policy in it, it's it's
literally the default
any size.
Uh you can look at some of the configs
for examples. We default to 128 hidden.
There are other M's that we do like 256
or 512.
Hey. Oh, hey Stone. Hey.
Cool. Ready to solve robotics?
Yes, I would love to get this multiGPU
thing working. I know it's been an issue
a little bit recently. Let me Hang on.
Let me share my screen on this so that
you don't get
delayed.
You're getting I don't I don't want you
to have the delay from this.
Sure.
Okay. On second monitor here. So,
actually, let's I can even do like this.
So by wait by the way are you think
course distributed? How are you doing
the distributed training? Hang on. Let
me
if I just do it this way here. See if
this does if legible.
Yeah I can I see you and yeah. So uh
this is what we're doing. We just use
run for this and we have this set up in
puffer lib. So this thing here, this is
the exact way that I ran uh one pabyte
of observations on neural MMO 3. Okay.
So what are these commands doing? What's
nodes and what's n proc per node mean?
So it's one machine and then six GPU. So
each proc is a GPU. Okay. Yes. Not CPU.
Yes. And then does it not set
environment variables? Uh no, but I just
did that and that doesn't help.
Can I see the issue you got when you did
that? Yes. So, uh, well, to be fair, it
is actually erroring in one of the
things that I added, which is this last
reward thing. I'll run it again for you
fresh.
I have not gotten the side uh pegert
task to do anything yet, but we So, this
is me trying to set the device
here.
They're two sort of separate things,
right? So, you can see that this is not
available. And then if I go into the you
can see that it's not defined in here.
It's just CPU GPU. The reason that
should that shouldn't be the bug
actually. Wait. Oh, it says s back end
is CUDA zero. That shouldn't happen.
Well, I I set that. I set that. You
definitely should Are you exposing?
It says to set this. That's outdated.
Outdated, man. I need to change that.
Okay. Okay. Um that might not work as as
expected. Um you want to leave it as
physx cuda. Okay. So I can do that but
then then we get to the other error
because that was the first thing I
tried.
Okay. I'll show you the binding.
Um I can also try to see if I can just
get CUDA end working. I remember we had
it working at one point but maybe
something broke like maybe something's
not using the right device. And also I
can literally give you SSH to this box
if you want.
Sure. Let's go through this system first
and then I'll try debug myself as well
later. So then get rid of this device
arc. Don't need that apparently.
Yeah. The the whole idea is if you just
expose CUDA devices, it isolates the
whole thing and CUDA zero looks like
whatever GPU you're giving it access to.
Okay.
Let's see what's the exact bug here.
How many guys you have on Twitch
watching right now? I swear like on
Twitter you have like 500 plus. Well,
that's not concurrent. That's not
concurrent.
Oh, those numbers are not concurrent.
No. So, all the Twitch all the the
Twitter streams you see the X streams,
those all lie. So, when you see people
have like a bajillion viewers, that's
total. I usually have like I usually
have like, you know, between five and 10
people watching.
Okay, this is something that we can fix,
I believe. But you think that there are
hundreds of people watching like RLDev?
No. I I thought for a second like
Twitter is just a better platform like
has so many people on it. No. Okay. I
think so. What's the error here? The
runtime error indic CPU or on the same
device as index tensor. Can you go back
to that line? So this is the thing that
I added, but I added it the exact same
way that all your other stuff is added.
So unless it gets like uh the device
gets switched later here, let me show
you this. Can I go to that? Can we get
go to the line of error? Yes, I will. I
just want to show you I added a print
for this. We'll go we'll show you that
line.
Okay. So
you can see this is how I define this. I
use your device.
This isn't the init. This is just the
init. Ah okay. And then
and then this is right here. Uh
so what is the print saying?
Okay,
this is saying that the observation is
on the wrong device. Show you is it
saying CUDA zero each time? Saying that
the observation is on CUDA zero. So the
other devices match what we would
expect. I did export the like I did add
a thing to export the device. Wait, I
thought CUDA zero is what it should say.
If you're doing exposed CUD to visible
devices like three, it will think it's
CUD to zero. Isn't that not how that
works? Shouldn't be.
That's what I remember. Maybe I'm
remember last time I tried a multiGP
setup.
Okay. What does it say? The other ones
have the correct device.
The hell is where my prints go? Oh,
yeah. Here. Look. M is on CUDA 4. Last
reward is on CUDA 4. is here.
Uh can I see the print line command
again? Let me see where it is. What is
it printing? So that is actually on the
right device. It's just OBS device is
wrong. Yeah. So it seems device wrong.
Yeah, which I don't mess with your OBS,
right? It seems like it's running the
SIM on the wrong device.
That could be possible. Uh
can we check the memory allocation? like
stop it before it goes to get ops and
just to see where the me which GPU is
being used. We should expect every
single one to have some GPU memory
allocated for the simulation. Uh okay, I
can do that but not in the way that you
expect cuz I can't put break point. So
hang on. Oh, I can't put Yeah. In the
meantime, I'm going to check the get ops
function to see if we're doing some
funky stupid thing like we're doing two
CUDA zero or something. Uh I hope we're
not doing that though.
Let's see. Let me try to get off
function. Are you doing state based?
Yes. Okay. I will see the function for
that. Get off state dick. Okay. So, this
is now the video.
Yes.
Okay. That 300 megabytes is probably
just imported pietorch.
Oh, I think they're all being it on the
first GPU. How many parallel
environments is this? 4096 each per GPU.
Yep.
Oh yeah, that's definitely using way
more memory than it should be. So they
must be being initialized on the first
one. Yep. Okay. Yeah. Um 4096 on a state
based P cube should not be using even
more than like 5 gigs I think. So
let's see. Let me see where we're
initializing the simulation engine. That
could be what it is.
Perhaps I'm not doing that right.
But we train p cube at I think it's a
bit above 60k steps per second on the
current tuned config. It does take too
many samples at the moment. Uh one more
sanity to check. Is it possible for you
to run it on one GPU but it's not GPU
zero and look at the memory usage. Uh I
have not tried that. Let's see. Uh I'm
curious like if this is a multiGPU setup
problem or if it's like I'm not setting
ID or I don't know. Yeah.
Yeah. So, we should ideally see the
second GPU being used obviously.
Okay, it's importing torch or stuff.
That's definitely the simulator being
imported.
So, this works. Well, we'll see. This is
taking forever to start up.
Is there any kind of warm cold machine
kind of thing going on? Maybe.
Okay, let's see if it does anything.
Can you see the prints? They're all
saying CUD to zero.
Okay, this is what I mean whenever I was
mentioning like if the CUDA devices is
some other random number, okay, to the
machine to the Python process itself, it
thinks it's CUDA zero. Okay, so in that
case then probably the export uh is not
working the way that I expect it is and
some of it it's like some of these are
using the N variable and some of them
are using something that's been cached
or whatever.
H because you like you realize like with
this when you run it with torch run
um it's going to start the processes for
you. So you don't really have an option
to start I don't think you have the
option to set that variable
uh before the process launches. You can
set it after you start the process.
Huh. Uh that's not Wait. I I swear I saw
a line in the code in the error trace
where it showed the export variable
thing or like os.vironment
replvices. Yes, you did. So, was that
your code? Yes, I will show you.
Uh if you if you set it after running
the Python script, I don't think that
will work.
Well, I was attempting to patch it
because I mean it definitely doesn't
work without it either.
Uh,
also wait, is Torch run a open source
project? Can I find it? I'm curious what
it looks like. Yeah.
Uh, do you have the link to it? I can't
find it on Google.
Is it from PyTorch? Yeah. Oh, it's from
PyTorch. Okay. It's distributed.
It's the same as just Yeah. This same
thing.
Oh, okay.
Let me take a look at this thing.
So, they don't set visible devices
apparently. I guess they set local rank.
They set local rank. No, I I see the
visible devices thing. Well, this is
what I set. Yeah, I just I just did this
to try to make Manny skill work.
And we also have this torch cuda set
device.
I have never seen that one. Let me see.
Let me see what that does.
That's supposed to set the default. So
like if I just make a tensor, it should
make it on that device.
I see. So set a default to whatever.
Huh.
Okay. Let me just check the physics side
of things.
Yeah. Um I mean I would hope it's not
physics issue because Isaac Lab can do
multiGPU stuff apparently. So, it's
probably something on our side then.
Well, I don't even know if it's on your
side as much as it's like there are many
ways that you can set these devices and
it depends on how you have it
implemented, which ones work and which
ones don't. Yeah, I'm guessing torch
doesn't do the ones that we expected.
Um, even then it shouldn't be as hard to
do.
I'm hoping we can get this working and
then I can like attempt to find some set
of parameters that will do uh the like
the peg insertion task or one of the
harder ones in puffer lip.
Yeah, that one takes like 30 minutes to
an hour on statebased training right now
on 1490. If you can get it faster,
that'd be pretty cool. We don't have
faster than you yet because like like
our just our defaults are not set up for
slow environments. Um, so I just have to
tune some stuff. But we do have it very
very stable uh with I think it's like
10. It's like 15 million steps, but it
takes like a little bit, but it's per
second.
Okay. Uh, I'm going to try to create a
new branch for Manasco. Can you just Are
you Did you get clone it or did you pip
install it? I pip installed. I can clone
it. All I would have to do is copy the
Sapion file over.
What sapion file? Well, I have the end
modified for the local reward stuff. The
new stuff. I see. I'm just I'm just make
a new branch. Maybe you can add the
change to that and then Yeah, make make
the branch and like I will I'll fork off
of it. Okay, great. Let me figure that.
We're going to get you. I've been
promising uh I've been promising robotic
stuff in Puffer for quite a while. So,
now you can finally get it. I do
eventually get around to it. It just
takes a while. Yeah, you got to solve
all the other issues first, right? There
is so much RL, man. I like gh the amount
of different things I've fixed
build.
Okay, let me send you the branch name
for add to that branch. It's just a
sapion repo, right? Nope, that's not the
repo. It's a man skill repo.
Uh, I'm just going to set to your
development chat. Oh, sorry. I sent the
change, but it's called puffer lib, the
branch name, the public one. Okay, let
me work.
Yeah. And then in the meantime, I'm
going to see if I can edit the code to
let you set CUDA and see if that works.
Uh, I've never really truly tested that,
but maybe it will.
Is this um reasonable to set up from
source or is it potentially pain in the
ass? No, it's the same thing you do with
pip installs. You're just get cloning
it.
Yeah, there's only a few extra files for
like RL that's not included with the
package.
Yeah, you just do pip install- e dot and
you're good.
And then you have like Vulcan whatever
set already, right? So Mhm.
good.
Yep. That should be good.
Uh, copy. Hang on.
You still use Vens. You don't use UV or
micro. This is UV.
Oh, they also call it V. Okay. And I
only recently started using UV out after
great protest. I typically would use no
virtual end and just Docker. Um,
but unfortunately there have been
changes to Python which kind of force
you to use virtual ends even inside of
Docker which Python's just a bad
language. All right. Nobody knows what
they're building.
Literally nobody knows what they're I'm
very mad about this.
Uh, this removed Manny skill. So, I have
to copy this from my local, I guess. And
luckily, I still have this on my local.
Okay.
So I have a strange kind of backend name
thing where physicuda physics GPU or
physics CPU. Yeah, that's need to add
another option just to say specify CUDA
device. That's what it it says in the
docs that you do but doesn't actually
work. Yeah, I removed that feature a
while back I think by accident without
realizing. I don't I don't have
automated tests for multi GPU stuff. I
don't have automated tests for almost
anything.
Yeah, I literally whenever I do big
release, I run the test once. If it
pass, it's fine. But I don't actually
have a cheat. That is what I do as well.
That is fine.
Yeah,
I guess I could just parse their sim
back in from physics CUDA to be like
physics cuda colon check the reax and
then if you pass in number, we'd only
use that. I mean, we could also just
figure out like what is the difference
between sending CUDA or actually wait
this doesn't make sense. If you pass in
physics CUDA, we create a device called
torch.de device and pass in a string
CUDA.
That should be looking for whatever the
default device is.
Unless it's not. Yeah, I don't know.
Wait,
wait. Maybe this is a safe pin issue cuz
the torch device we're passing Oh, I
think it's a maybe sap is not tracking
it correctly. Um cuz I noticed how the
ward and everything else is on the right
device, right? It's like 765, right?
Yeah. Hang on. Let me get you this.
Yeah, we we keep track of two devices.
We have the device for a simulation and
renderer and then we have a device for
the APIs, tasks, and reward function.
Whatever. Those are two different
devices because they have to be managed
a little differently. That could be the
issue.
Uh,
I guess you can print ID or
Okay. So, here I have the single um
single GPU peg insertion task running.
Okay.
And this should be running with the
latest man like the from source manny.
Okay.
Um, on one GPU.
Okay. Um, I have a quick fix you can try
checking for the multiGP setup. Can you
go to the backendpay file again
back end?
It's going to pass.
Uh so what we're going to do is let's
just use environment variable to or what
what's the function you use to get the
rank. Hang on let me where's is it in uh
a man skill m utils systems back end.py
Okay. So, here it is.
Yes. Go to the line under physics sim
back end equals physics kudo. Go to that
line.
Uh like elimin back end equals physics
kudo.
This Oh, no. The one with the if
statement that sets a SIM device and and
a torch device. Torch. Yeah. Okay. So it
seems like core device is selecting the
one that you thought you're selecting
right saf device is not I don't know why
we can trick check can you check the
envir can you how do you get the local
rank like the number one to eight
whatever can you get that number and
append it to the string cuda
so device equals safe device instead of
writing cuda we're going to write cuda
colon the number
uh I see So,
I guess what we can I can do something
as a quick hack. Um, because this is not
going to be exported.
Let's see if we get it to work like
this. Yeah, this is just like a quick
check and if this works, I'll add a
feature to add the exact number that
people want. Okay, so we'll do is it
sapient CUDA like this? Does this
render? No, not that line. Go above. Go
above. Oh, yes. I don't line numbers.
How do I tell you which line? Sim device
equals saving device under e- lift sim
back end equals physics cuda.
Right below that one. Okay, this thing.
Yeah, that one. And then we're doing
cuda colon whatever the local rank is.
Let's see if that works and maybe print
it and see how it works.
Okay. And then format the strength for
CUDA and saf device. Oh, I don't know if
I did this on the right machine. Uh,
what what are you is this a file not the
right one? Yeah, I accidentally I
accidentally set all this stuff up on my
local. My bad. Oh, no worries. Uh, hang
on. I because it's I have all these
terms and like
supposed to be here.
My bad.
Let's see. I'm trying to think, okay, if
I'm going to add a feature where people
can specify the exact CUDA device.
Do I have to specify a number or do I
let them pass a CUDA colon? CUDA colon
is kind of stupid because other things
we might have other GP backends. Yeah,
we're probably going to Yeah. So, other
backends would be uh like MPS or
Yeah, we might add MJX Warp in the
future. They're still working on it.
Nvidia and Majoko's teams, but it's
supposedly going to be much better than
Physics or the current MJX. Yeah, I saw
have fun at uh Nvidia over the summer.
Yes. Um playing around with simulators,
I guess. Isaac and R.
What's the Sims?
Uh okay.
Our sapient file
that was
what the heck was Oh yeah, utils back
And yep.
The second e- lift.
Okay. In this function here. Not that
one. No. Nope. That's for That's for
something else. You got to go to the
fix. Oh, this is render. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. This is render. Rendering. We We
might need to fix that, too. But let's
fix this one first. X. This looks good.
Device.
Why don't I just set Couldn't I just set
this to Oh, it's because it's
sapient.device is separate from torch
device. I think we're not using the same
API torch is using to detect what torch
run is setting. We are only using CUDA
visible devices which I think is
actually the standard approach but for
whatever reason torch does not do it and
they don't need care torch them. Okay,
let me I have to do
Anakin
waited.
Me time. Let me see what the hell torch
run is doing. Okay, so now we have this.
So
local rank. Okay. Because it doesn't
it's not going to get set if I don't if
I don't run it with distributed. We'll
just do distributed. Yeah. Let's just
give it a shot. Can can we see the GPU
memory usage as well to see which one
it's using?
Great.
So,
let's hope if this doesn't work, I'll
ask the Sapion lead to fix something.
It should work. Oh, that's not a good
sign. It's going to 9,000 GB.
Uh, yeah, that kind of looks like it's
just initializing them all one after
another.
Yeah, same issue again. Uh, didn't we
print the device or didn't work?
Maybe I did.
I guess we're also not sure if the local
rank variable is correct either. Find
it. Uh utils back end. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. And then one more print to do. Um
after we find a send device, can you
print send device uh
CUDA id?
This is the one that s thinks it's using
is it cuda like this? Yep, that's
correct. That's the right property name.
Okay, we will attempt to get something
out of this.
Uh
why is syn device still zero?
So we're passing cuda colon a number
right the right number right. So that
seems strange. Um no we didn't change
it. We didn't change it. Cuda you had to
do colon local rank. Yeah bad man. No
worries.
All right, nice. Let's try it again.
Kind of just been doing a ton of RL and
driving myself nuts.
You know, I I feel bad I've kind of
moved away from RL recently. Like I'm
just using default PPO. I'm not
modifying anymore. I'm just doing sim
stuff instead. You know what? You're not
going to be using default PO very soon
because Puffer LE is gonna solve all
your stuff. It's working. It's working
now.
Correct. Let's see if this does
anything. Yeah. So, if I if if I get
this to work, I don't think you're going
to be using default PO.
Cool. I'm going to on that branch add
the feature to specify the device
directly. At least add it back. Hey, uh,
have you seen uh, man skill run this
fast?
No, it's state based, right? Uh,
it's still 300k
for Q picking. I want to see the
rendering forms later, too. Oh, we have
to change the code renderer as well, but
yeah, we'll have to change some stuff.
Nice. Okay. Um, I'm going to add a
official feature to make this work so
you don't have to do the hack. So, I'm
gonna have to PR you once I figure out
the the reward stuff anyways cuz like it
um
you literally can't use any of the manny
skill rewards with a standard J.
Yes, we have a different one I guess
that we've modified and it seems like
other people I saw your comment with
Kyle. I guess it's the same situation
with them. Yeah. So, it's I basically I
like I kind of figure that if you're
doing something everyone's probably
doing it that way. Um Yep. like because
it's generally you guys are doing the
most reasonable stuff I see in robotics.
So I kind of assume if everybody's just
doing these state based rewards then
everybody's probably made the same
chains to J which is like it's kind of
two errors that cancel each other out.
Wait, what is a statebased reward? Is
this like we're not doing potential or
we're just doing like the current value
of your state. Right. So, you're
basically you're giving it a reward
based on how close you are to a target
when the way to do this that doesn't
require you to have J like one way or
the other fixed is to do deltas, right?
Because then if you do deltas, it's
unfarmmable.
Do you do deltas for all your
environments now? Well, we mostly don't
have these types of continuous rewards
in the first place for a lot of our
stuff. Our stuff is way sparer.
Ah, right. You don't even need a density
ward sometimes, right? Some of them. No,
not like not at all. Ours are pretty
much sparse by default. Actually, you
could try sparse on a pick cube. I doubt
it will work, but maybe you get a
billion samples, maybe figure out by
accident. Who knows? It's kind of tough
because I I tried it briefly. Um, your
sparse reward is super sparse in the
sense that like you're just never going
to accidentally do that, right? Yes. In
general, that's usually the case. Yeah.
Okay. Okay. So this thing is um you can
see that this is solving already, right?
Nice.
Yeah. But pick cube is too easy to like
compare performance like we already
solve it with under a minute. So if you
check the harder test then we should
hopefully see some improvements. Yeah.
So and the thing is this is also
remember this is not tuned well enough
yet. So I tuned it to um I actually
didn't even do up like multiple update
epochs in this. So, this is literally
looking at your data once and throwing
it away.
Nice. You'll see the uh here. Okay, we
can get rid of this. So, we can show you
here. These are the params from the
sweep that I got. You can see that this
is a slightly different scale from uh we
have a 64 horizon. This gives us an
effective batch size of I believe this
is 280K or something like that. And then
a mini batch size
Yeah, we do recurrent by default. Oh,
your ind bash size is far larger than
mine. Yes. Much much bigger. Yes. So,
this is this is a thing in puffer that
we usually have standard. So, if you
actually look the at this, you can see
that 94% of the time is spent on the
environment. Like puffer takes almost no
time.
Uh wait, what are these two numbers? 34
seconds and 94%. What does that mean? So
ignore this because this is relative.
But this is 94%
of the total time of this experiment is
being spent simulating the in
Oh, you're spending no time training.
Yeah. So in this setting then if you're
simulator is faster whatever how you
have better scaling, right? Uh yes,
exactly. So this is why if I do this
exact same thing. So if I literally just
do this and I just change this to
buffer neural MMO 3. Yeah.
You'll see you get a very different
spread.
So, first of all, you're immediately
training over two million steps per
second. Yeah. And
uh you can see that we have almost no
time is spent on the environment even
though we need to simulate two million
steps per second.
Right. I mean, isn't that because you're
collecting the same amount of data but
faster. So most of the time is red
training time. Yes, exactly. Because the
end just runs super fast and now there's
actually a little bit of copy overhead
because the amount of data this it's
actually quite a large amount of data.
It'll do this will be about a pabyte in
three or four days of data. Is the copy
overhead from just transferring CPU data
to GPU? Yes, we have a bit of but for us
for us the copy should pretty much it's
zero because there's no copy. Yeah. So
for us we have but like the total
bandwidth still it's still 15%. Compared
to 94% right it's kind of crazy and this
is and this is with a much bigger this
is also with a we have a bigger policy
in here as well. This is a 3.4 million
parameter policy with an LSTM in it
training at 2.2 mil.
Yeah, I'm guessing you need to have
settings tuned based on this
distribution, right? Like for high
throughput environments like or CR
environments, you can do something else.
For slower environments, you definitely
do something else, right? Yes. But we
also have we also have the best
hyperparameter tuning algorithm. So
we'll be able to do that, right? Yeah.
Now, the only thing is it's not set up
by default to even bother looking at
like multiple update epochs or really
small like mini batch or anything. Just
don't do it. I see. Nice.
Cuz even our slow even our slowm are
typically like hundreds of hundreds of
thousands per uh per GPU.
Mhm. Like neural MMO is considered one
of our slowm. If I do like here,
this is single GPU speed.
So, literally one GPU on Breakout. Oh,
that's actually sad. That's sad. Slow.
My local settings.
Where is this?
Go.
Uh, I don't I'll grab it from.
So there you go. This is here's puffer
breakout at 3 million steps per second
on one GP.
Yeah, it's very different regime.
Um I also point out another thing with
physics environments. We often do
multiple physics steps before you take
an action. So the default for PC cube is
five physics steps for every action. You
can technically have five times the S
fps, but your training performance will
be more sample efficient. The reason is
because for every physics step you take,
the robot moves further sometimes. So we
actually have a way to automatically
sweep that. Um oh, the physics steps
amount if if you can bind it. So here,
let me just I'll show you how we do this
big. Um,
so literally all we do is what's the
parameter called?
Uh, we have some it's in the MK works.
This is something called sim config.
Yeah, but what's the is it like physics
steps? Physics steps or something? No,
it's in the sim config. There's like
it's nested. The sim config is a
dictionary. Yeah, but like what's what's
the what's the innermost name?
The innermost name is sim. Sorry, I need
to check. We don't call steps. We have a
sim frequency and control frequency. If
you increase the control frequency, you
take more you take less physics per
action. Um, so let me find. So basically
what I want to do
is I want to add I want to add it to the
make function.
Yeah. And then it's going to be like
Yeah. I just want to add it to the make
function and then I can auto add it to
our
Yeah. So you said do you see the sim
conflict class I just sent you in
discord? There's two numbers you change
the simulation frequency only really
change it changes like the granularity
of each physics step. So if the sim
frequency is 100 that means each physics
step is about 1/100th of a second in the
real world.
Um okay and then the number of physics
steps we take is sim frequency divided
by control frequency.
So should I be tuning? Should I play
with both of these numbers or just one
of them? So I actually have not bothered
sweeping Simfreak. It is very poss. So
the problem with Simre Freak is that if
it's too small, the simulation is
inaccurate and it'll break. Like you
know the cube will bounce everywhere. If
it's too big, you're simulating too much
and your simulator is very slow. So how
do I add these? Is there a way that I
can pass this into a sim config for
this? So in the original yeah you got to
do after render mode do comma sim config
sim_config
equals dict
and then pass in sim_refak and control
freak and we will just override the
defaults with whatever only sort of
things you provide. Everything else will
be kept the same.
Yep, that works. Uh, I would recommend
not changing sim freak for most part
because we tuned them a little bit to be
stable, but you can try sweeping it if
you want. Uh, usually defaults are
pretty good. Um, control freak is
definitely something you can try.
The other thing I would note is that if
the control freak is higher, like let's
say you use 40 or sorry, let's say you
use 50, it has to be divisible. The
problem with that is that the robot will
move slower per action and so the
effective length of a task grows longer
and so the max steps value that we tune
for each environment are wrong. Now
the only fix against that is to possibly
increase the maximum delta of each robot
action which currently is maybe not so
easy to change from the command line. So
hang on. So simulation freak decreases
fidelity. If I just in order to make
this thing faster, do I have to divide
both of these by the same constant or
just like one of them or what? No, no,
no. So, the fastest simulation you can
get is if you do sim freak like 10,
control freak 10, you're basically
simulating very very coarsely. I see.
Um, and every physics step we return an
observation. So, your SPS is technically
higher. Um, but you probably won't be
able to solve anything because one with
control freak of 10, it's you're not
moving a lot in environment and sim
freak of 10, the simulation is very
inaccurate.
Um, yeah, so it's a strange balance and
that's why I've never bothered sweeping
it before. Um, because the higher the
control freak, the less distance your
robot moves. Um, now there's one
potential fix you can explore later,
which is you can try increasing the
speed of the robot, like the maximum
action it could take. Right now, we cap
it at certain number of radians per
joint, but you can you can bump that up
and see what happens. We would like The
reason why the reason why we keep this
smaller is only just for like
reasonability.
Like we want to do some tore. If you
make it too large, it's probably not
going to transfer to real world. Um, oh,
you can't lurp it. Like if you get like
a lowfi thing, can't you like upscale?
Yeah, that's true. But we want to keep
our defaults reasonable for most users
because otherwise it won't be they'll be
confused if they do. Well, I mean, what
happens if we set it really coarse and
then set everything to be super domain
randomized and then we have manny scale
at 2 million steps per second and we
solve robotics. How about that? I know.
Give it a try. Um, I can tell you the
function or thing you could try to
change to increase the maximum
actions later. I need to figure it out
because we don't have it as a typical
API. If you have a thing we can do with
that because I mean it really is the
case that with puffer like we see some
crazy stuff as soon as we get things to
run at a reasonable speed. Right.
Like you I think you saw the neural MMO
3 curve, right? Yeah. Much better than
before, right? Yeah. It's like almost 3x
better than our 20 baseline. Yeah. And
it's better than the game. It's better
at the game than I am.
Wow.
Have you tried a net hack yet? I guess
net. We are We are waiting for Ryan to
uh be ready to do that stuff and I'm
going to hack on that with him for a
bit. Oh, that's cool.
Okay.
If we actually get something that seems
like it'll work, I'm just going to order
I'll just order like a little robot arm
or something to see if it if it works or
not. Our center real experiments. We do
zero shot center real. You have to set
up the camera a little bit after you
follow tutorial. It should be pretty
straightforward and hopefully you can
get it solving random tasks you define
really accurately. Like the main thing
about reinforcement learning compared to
like imitation learning, you have high
generalizability. You have high spatial
generalizability. I can place a cube in
like 30 by 30 cmters large area for a
tiny robot arm and it's fast, right? The
policy deploys decently fast.
Um, obviously it's not going to be like
a general purpose robot. That's kind of
harder, but um, you know, some people
want high performance robots for one
task. This is the way it can do quite a
lot. Frankly, if like the main
limitation on why we don't do robotics,
it's not that the problems are hard,
it's that they're slow. Like I mean, we
already one of the faster ones. I mean,
there are faster tasks you can try, but
Oh, no. Absolutely. I'm not faulting
you. I'm just the field as a whole.
Like, this stuff is like at least I I
mean, being very generous in order of
magnitude too slow.
Yeah. You got you got to get more GPS to
scale up at this point. Yeah. I mean, if
if there are these fidelity settings
like, you know, break like breakout or
pong are basically unplayable for humans
at like eight frame skip, but the RL
agent is freaking just it just does it.
Wait, what is eight frame skip? So, do
you take like eight physics tests before
you take an action or something? Yeah,
it'll just do that. I see.
But the thing is so frame skip for
something like that like you say you can
upscale the speed of the actions and
it's the same thing. You just lose a bit
of granularity and it'll work. It'll
work model
any range of actions. It can take the
largest one or take a smaller one in
case it can't solve the problem. Right.
Yeah. We'll just have to like observe
for the real training we've done with
the little robot hugging face arm. It
will take larger actions initially, but
once it gets to a cube, it generally
takes smaller actions because it knows
if it takes too large of an action,
it'll break.
Um, so I think I think this is
definitely possible for sure.
Yeah. Yeah. I might have to just stick
on the uh the push cube task for a
little bit and just like speedrun it
first because my guess is that the peg
insertion we can probably solve it, but
the way Puffer works, it's pretty data
hungry, at least with the defaults. But
I'd like to try to first like tune tune
for sample efficiency, tune for speed to
get a feel for what I can solve this
with. Um, yeah. Oh, not push cube. Push
cube is too easy. Pick cube. We can do
both of those. Um, yeah. The next
difficulty task is probably stack cube
and push t. Those are next two. Yeah, I
can do either. Push t1. Push tv1 is uh
is a very famous task because of a
famous paper from a while back. But
there's a we have the only GPU sim
version of it.
Um yeah, literally some undergrad at my
at UCSD did it for a course project.
Like he saw this paper that did push t
in real world was like you know let me
try to simulate it. Cracked guy wrote
the code wrote the reward function wrote
a function to check the area overlap
like batched uh 2D area overlap
function. That was kind of cool. Cool.
Submitted a PR. I accepted it. He joined
my lab. He did the center real project
actually. I mentored him on that. Now
he's joining Nvidia as well.
That's cool. I don't know about keeping
for PhD but um yeah
very cracked underground there. Three
stack cube. Now we have our chat asking
for three stack cube. All right. What's
it called? I don't have a three stack
cube. Two stack cube. Okay. What's it
called? Stack stack cube. So we do Manny
stack.
Uh we I can add a three stack cube task.
Uh might be hard to solve. I don't know
the time it would take to solve, but we
can try running it. Very easy to define.
I can define it like this stack cube v1.
Yep, that's right. Well, let's see if we
can solve these first. I at least have
some stuff to play with. Uh what are we
going to do about this reward thing? So,
I can show you what I what I made. Um
just make can you make the change in PR
or something or Yeah, I can totally I
will PR it for you. I just want to make
sure this is like reasonable for you.
Yeah, I I'll just edit as needed. Um,
let me see. Let me just make sure that
you like you think that this is a
reasonable uh thing to do because I
don't like it's possible I missed
something. The one thing is that you
probably need to add a scale param
because it changes the reward scale
differently per task. Uh, so I haven't
done that yet, but where is it? Many
skill. Why are we changing why are we
changing reward scale? Uh, you'll see.
Hang on. Manny skill and
Okay, so you start with these zeros for
last reward, right? And then last to
zeros
and then the delta reward function.
It gives Oh, you have 10.
Well, because the difference is going to
be very small.
I see. I guess that should be another
parameter to him now. Yes, this would be
a per this would be a hyper which is the
reward scale. Um because this is a very
small scale and but here's the crazy
thing about this though, right? So
this doesn't actually do anything if you
think about it because if your rewards
were like 0.9 or 0.91
before you still had to like it had to
learn that difference which is very
small. So I've seen separately in my own
work that state-based rewards are very
bad because of this reason because let's
say that you want your reward to be
roughly zero to one scaled that covers
the entire state space like one is the
best zero is bad. So like between very
good and like a little bit worse.
There's only this tiny little band. You
kind of have to learn to upnormalize it.
Versus with these deltas, deltas can
have a much more reasonable magnitude
for them because they're always
relative. So that's like another big
reason for this. I thought that's what
advantage calculation was meant for. It
was meant to compute the scenes. It
doesn't quite work.
I guess this just makes it easier for
advantage too, right? Yes. Yes, this
does. And it will keep everything on
roughly the same scale as well. Another
question is I don't I mean I think
personally this 10 times div thing the
10 should go into the algo code the fun
the training code not the environment.
So
you'd ideally want to have your well I
guess it depends. You can technically
put a reward scale constant into your
algorithm. Uh generally what I do in
puffers we kind of just assume that the
M should have reasonably normalized
rewards and if they don't then we like
make a wrapper for the N so that like
the N is responsible for giving us a
reasonable reward. The only thing that
we do is we will clip the reward from
negative one to one just because like
there are a lot of M's with just insane
reward functions that will instantly
break learning otherwise.
Yeah, but all our rewards are probably
in a scale of like 0.01 or 0.1 because
you already normalize it. You're using
normalized one, right? Yeah, you are. Uh
so I could get rid of this 10x and just
have diff and then I' I'd have to add
like a reward scale param. I guess it's
a little weird, but I we could do it.
It's okay. I my person like at least in
my own ppl code I often add your scale
as just a config parameter because it's
dependent on environment. Yeah. Well, I
guess because it's dependent on
environment maybe you should just put it
in the environment. But the thing is
the other reason why I put it there is
because it's also dependent on algorithm
sometimes. Yeah, some algorithms might
handle it better than others. Right. We
kind of just the thing in puffer is we
just have the one best algorithm.
I see right. Uh I mean technically we
already have a mistake in here where we
have a normalized density reward and a
non-normalized one. Yeah. The reason why
we call it a non-normalized one is
because people still use that from
manuscript 2 and just left it there. But
I
uh Okay. The problem is I I don't like
the idea of having to tune the delta
reward skill for every environment.
Unless we want to do it now, we could.
Um I guess but the problem is like well
I don't that's the only you don't really
have to as long as it's in a reasonable
enough range. Um that's it then like
because the thing is you you're tuning
your learning rate in other things right
and that kind of gets it but it like you
still want to have your reward on like a
reasonable enough scale that your
default like your defaults actually
learn something so you have a starting
point. So like it just generally if we
can get the reward into a roughly 0ero
to one or negative one to one scale like
somethingish around there we'll be fine
but I don't know is there some general
thing we can do because it's like so
technically the maximum diff the maximum
delta is one right because your
normalized reward goes from zero to one
so if you were to jump if you were to
teleport to the target in one step it
would be one
yes but that's almost impossible. Yes,
exactly. So, but then the thing is like
what do we set it to to be reasonable?
I mean, if you do times 10, you're going
to clip it to one anyway. Yeah. Um, but
most of the time the reward function
you're going to be dealing with is just
a tage function or exponential, right?
Yeah. Because most of the time you're
not switching stages in reward function.
Like we do reward functions by stages
usually. Um, and so between stages is a
small jump, but otherwise in a stage is
always just whatever the gradient of the
tanh function is and that's what you're
following. Well, I mean, I can show you
what we get from this in where is it?
So, success once. These are some of our
experiments here. Actually, I'll show
you the best ones because I have this
nice full sweep for you.
Okay, this is what it looks like um for
thisund and 138 experiments.
And you can see that we have like a
variety of these different results.
get return and such. And uh we also have
reward. So reward it looks like for the
best it gets up to about point four with
the times 10 that I find. Yeah, is like
a reason I would call that a reasonable
enough scale. Um which task is this
again? This is pick.
Okay. I I feel like time st is okay.
This is reflecting what the result of
tanh is usually like the difference of
two tanh operations at two points. Yeah,
that seems about and then I can show you
if I just I can show you the best runs.
But also this is probably overfitit on
the robot you're using right now. Some
other robots have smaller scales of
movement which might be different which
might be annoying. I mean I would be
curious try without multip by 10 and
just see if your algorithm can be robust
to it. Uh I can try. My guess would be
that the p the optimal hypers are going
to shift dramatically.
Maybe not. a way to make this I feel
like you need a way to make this
slightly more robust because I I can try
it. I can just try it. Yeah, I would
think you should try it. But I feel like
it's a bit hard to guarantee that every
environment has a reasonable reward
function. I mean, you're already
clipping to try to avoid that. Well,
we're clipping is just like if you give
it's that's basically the intent of that
is don't give me something insane. Like
there are people people will literally
PR me environments that have like 300
reward scale and I tell them to fix but
like all the third party environments
literally people have no idea what
they're doing in this field man I
remember the days in the first opening
were like going to thousands or tens of
thousands. Yeah
that's kind of crazy. Yeah people just
don't know what they're doing honest
the fix for that some people try to do
is try and use sim log wait clipping
also yeah that doesn't work. We uh we
have we have extensive we have extensive
experimental evidence that sim log is a
method. I think you tested only
on dreamer though. Wasn't on a dreamer
one. We tested it on PO.
Oh, maybe that's a PO thing. We we we
tried sim log on TDMPC our model base.
That seems to work quite well. Did you
try it versus just clipping?
Uh we have not tried it versus clipping
but it was definitely better than not
doing anything. Yes. So you need to So
it's basically you just need to do
something and just clipping is just as
good as sim log if not better.
Huh. Yeah, I see. Okay. Yeah. Uh yeah.
So that was a bust one for paper.
Interesting. Yeah. I mean like you said
we don't like our algorithm it's based
on PO but our trainer is not PO at this
point. It's like it's changed enough to
not call it the same algorithm.
Huh. Okay.
And it's been dramatically better on
everything else we've tested. So, my
expectation is after we speak, you
should see some improvements on this.
Um, it's got it has a new advantage
function. It's got a different
optimizer. It's got like prioritized
replay on online prioritized replay. Uh,
advantage filtering like trajectory
segment level filtering. Got a bunch of
stuff.
Nice.
And it's fast.
Yeah, you're adding a lot of It's like a
rainbow PO now. H I mean I would think
that the stuff that we've added has been
much better validated. And also like
it's harder to bolt stuff onto PO that
matters than it is to bolt stuff onto
DQN because DQN's just a bad base
algorithm whereas PO is a pretty dang
good base algorithm. Still using PQN. I
I swear there shouldn't be anyone using
DQ. Yeah, but like Rainbow is like
Rainbow is like a bolt-on to DQN
basically, right? Yeah, but like DK is
too bad of a base algorithm. I don't
know why you would do that. Yeah. Well,
the point here is that like if you try
to like make like a rainbow PO for
instance, it's a lot harder than it is
to make like rainbow DQN because your
starting point is a much stronger
baseline.
Ah, yes, I agree. That makes sense.
Yeah. Yeah. Cuz like so most of the
papers that say we made P like we made a
better PO if you actually go try them
they're just wrong.
Yeah. I mean people are still using PO
now right. There's a good reason for
that. Yeah I'm still it. I think there
is some possibility SACE might make a
comeback but it could be within the
regime that we are testing out which is
100ks. It's just low. I will say um well
we'll see once I run these sweeps for
you if you're convinced by this. Uh the
very least though, like the absolute
very least you do, even if you don't
want to do like our more complicated
stuff is to switch your optimizer from
Atom to Muon and retune all your hyper
prams. Oh yeah, I heard you were using
Muon. It seems to actually work pretty
well, right? But you also need to tune
your other parameters according to
learning rate and whatever. You need to
retune all your parameters.
I see. Are you using muon right now?
Yes. In these sweeps? Yes. Everything is
muon by default.
Nice.
Okay. I mean, at this point in manual
repo, we have a baselines folder. I'll
probably just add a separate folder
called puffer dbo and just point to your
website. That works much better. Yeah. I
I mean, it's like the cool thing is our
stuff is it's vaguely clean RL. It's
obviously it's gotten a little bit
longer with all the stuff we've had to
do, but like our trainer is still Have
you seen it late? Have you seen it
recently? Which one? The Puff Rel file.
No. What is it? This is your training
file. 1,000 total lines. And this
includes this includes pretty much
everything. Uh it includes as well the
local dashboard, the nice local
monitoring dashboard, integrations for
Neptune and wann. Uh it includes like
the runner. Yes. For current training.
It includes all the config stuff to load
all the different puffer ends as well.
Um
yeah, and eval. It includes a lot of
stuff. A big chunk of it is just
printing. Yes. A lot of it is like this
is the dashboard. When you see that like
in your terminal dashboard, it's just
right there. And then this is move this
function out outside the dashboard part.
No, we just keep everything in a file as
much as possible. That's funny. I feel
like I minimum logging stuff should be a
separate file, but okay. We try to just
keep everything there. I think we have
separate models because of separate
models file because it's like you're not
going to use every model with this but
you're always going to this dashboard
with this. Um so we try to just keep
this together and then the one other
thing here that literally cannot be in
the same file is the CUDA extension
because we have the advantage function
here. Oh, you're on a CUDA colonel for
advantage. It's required. Uh, puffer is
literally so fast that with the way that
prioritized experience replay works, if
you do not have this, you can bottleneck
on the advantage computation.
Huh? Yeah, I remember advantage comput
is like a big for loop, right? You got
to paralyze that. This is also this is
also something that you can steal. This
is not generalized advantage estimation.
This is our own algorithm. This is a
strict generalization of both vrace and
generalized advantage estimation.
Wait, what is this different from the
standard advantage computation? Yes.
What's the difference? It is a strict
generalization of vrace and generalized
advantage estimation both. Oh, wait. You
have an importance vector and then
you're you have a row clip. What row
clip doing here? So, this is vrace. You
know vtrace from Impala? I have heard of
it. I don't know how it works. It's an
off it's an off policy correction
mechanism. You know how uh PO has like
this it has this term that tries to like
keep close to the original policy like
this importance term. So what vrace does
is it does that inside of the advantage
function. So it pushes it a layer
deeper. You have it at actually every
step of the advantage computation. You
have that importance term.
I see. Huh. So what this does is this
gives you that and it gives you
generalized advantage estimation at the
same time as a generalization of both.
What's the fmn in function where oh
fmin? It's just a min float min float.
Oh, that's the clipping thing. Okay.
Float. So, you're taking them in and you
have the CT part and then Huh. And then
the only thing you have to be a little
careful of is whether your next your
current versus next step indexing is the
same as ours. This is correct for our
implementation.
Yeah. But yeah, this is this is the main
thing. This was the thing that made it
really annoying to ship Puffer 3.0
because shipping CUDA kernels just
sucks. It's just a pain in the ass to
set up with uh with your setup.py. high.
Uh, and there's also like there's an
automatic C++ fallback for this as well.
Without embedded GPUs at least. Yeah.
So, this just like works. Yeah. And then
that's that was one of the other big
things. So, like at this point,
basically nobody has actually started
using any of our stuff outside of Puffer
yet, but it is technically just all
there and you can just like
state of the art stuff.
I mean, I have my own PO code. I'll
probably just switch if it's faster than
lean RL version of it. It will be
dramatically faster. I guess I will
still need to kind of tune for single
GPU still. Well, let me just do that
first, right? Let me let me just run
that stuff and we'll see how good I can
get it. But yeah, like yeah, this this
single implementation we use this on the
cool thing about this is we just use
this one implementation on everything.
So it's like tuned for it like has to be
good for everything basically. Um,
right. So this thing with really big
batch sizes I have hit I've trained uh
20 million step per second pong that
actually solves the M like at that like
with crazy batch sizes. And the other
thing about this is if you run this
distributed, this thing will give you
linear speed ups even for Ms that are
like running at like uh like several
hundred thousand steps per second
because like the overhead is tiny.
That's crazy.
Yeah, this is basically core of puffer
3. I I hope that this is going to be
useful for robotics because basically
what I'm trying to do with Manny here is
like just see whether we can just throw
this on robotics and build something
that's useful to robotics researchers as
a result. We haven't had that much
usage. A lot of our people use our PO
baseline if they can use this when it's
faster, that's easy to install, but I'm
sure they'll switch over. Uh, I would
also recommend I mean if you want more
you should target locomotion but I know
you haven't done Isaac but you probably
should. The reason we did Isaac Gym and
it was we had a contract where we did
Isaac gym and it was it was hell like
did the contract work out eventually?
Like yeah we did it but like we did it.
It was just like way way more work than
it should have been. And like honestly
it was just like some of the dumbest
most deranged code we've ever seen uh
was the Isaac Jim code bases. Like they
literally have like they have
generational trauma of like it's like
one PhD student wrapping another PhD
student shitty code and then like roll
that forward five generations of
miserable PhD students.
I see. Um well anyway regardless the
most frequent uses of PO and robotics
will be people training dogs and robot
humanoids.
Um you have the you have um you have
humanoid tasks in Manny, don't you?
Yeah, we have manipulation tasks, not
locomotion. Our locomotion ones suck
because I don't have the right reward
functions. Isaac Lab and Isaac Jim have
tuned the reward functions already and
I've never figured out how to do it
myself. Oh, the other thing is we I've
never been able to replicate Isaac Jim's
locomotion simulation speed. I don't
know what they did, but we have not been
able to replicate it. So, I just did.
Okay. So, I mean, let's just see how far
we get out of tuning. If like if I am
actually able to get something fast and
like if I'm able to get stable training
at quick speeds with this, then I think
that could potentially unlock a lot of
new stuff for you on the sim. Yeah, for
sure. I mean, it'll be tasks that we
didn't expect we can solve, right? That
we can also solve. That's literally what
has happened with a lot of the things in
Puffer is like just from 2 to 3 0 we had
a lot of hard problems that we really we
were putting a lot of effort into and we
couldn't quite get before and now they
just work out of the box. Um nice like
in various different domains things are
just like getting soda.
Another thing I want you to consider
have you considered learning from
demonstrations like online learning
demonstrations?
Um we did that for that one contract.
It's like is that even a hard problem
like at all? Yes. And also it's a very
popular problem in robotics because
right now most of robotics is heavily
focused on using demonstration data from
the real world or simulation.
The problem is I mean real world data
they do imitation learning on it but in
simulation you can do RL and imitation
learning together. Yeah that's a setup
we is the point is you want to get rid
of density functions. There's too many
possible robotics task. There's not
enough people to write reward functions
for and language models are not good
enough at writing reward functions
apparently. So it's hard to scale in
that sense. So people have opted
including me people have opted to try
get a few demonstrations train or SACE
or whatever to learn from that in a
sparse reward environment. So I think
that basically if you just get if you
just get a policy that can take actions
that make sense. So instead of like
flailing and like jittering, if it can
just like make actions that are like
move arm here, move arm here, whatever,
the exploration problem kind of becomes
trivial enough that you should just be
able to use the sparse reward setting
online. No, no, that's what I hope too.
And in fact, actually, one of the things
I worked on before was trying to use
simulation state to reset the agent to
anywhere I want. Like you know the go
explore paper. Oh yeah. I I made a
version probably like I mean code. They
didn't have code for that one, but like
a much better version of it. It's called
reverse for curriculum learning. Yeah,
that would work for robotics. That
should just work. Yes, I am I have one
student trying to make that work with
PTO now because we originally used SACE
back when GPU summation wasn't a thing.
But yeah, that would be the way I would
approach for simulation based learning
demonstrations, which is use state to
mitigate all the exploration problems.
Um, yeah, I don't have to do any fancy
loss function actually. I don't I don't
actually I just do curriculum learning
and state setting. Um I know there's
some fancier methods that try to do like
I don't know if you heard of method
called DAPG demonstration augmented
policy gradient. No they changed the pol
policy gradient a little bit by use with
demonstration data and it's okay. I
don't think it's very stable. Um it's
like very old papers from like 2018. U
but that's still one of the more popular
baselines for on policy learning from
demonstrations if you don't use
simulation state at least.
Um, let's just see. Let's see how much
of a let's see if if this just makes a
difference or not because it like it
it's possible that it doesn't like
because it's a pretty different domain.
But my hope is that between messing with
the simulation fidelity and everything,
we should be able to get something. And
then uh if that starts kind of working
then I'm gonna have to ask you about
like control speed and domain
randomization and stuff because like my
kind of my impression on a lot of these
things is just like a really fast and
loose and well randomized sim should get
you very very far. um including like
let's say that you wanted to mix in some
slower sim, right? Then I'd have to
figure out how you do that from an
instructor perspective with the way that
your GP sims are set up, but you should
be able to do something like that. Wait,
what do you mean mix in slower sims like
our rendering ones? Well, you wouldn't
be able to go state to rendering, but
let's say that you had like a setting of
the sim that's domain randomized to be
super low fidelity and then a setting
that's randomized to be like that's
super high fidelity. Ah, yes. That's a
very interesting thing. Um I actually
have one research project where we're
trying to explore how much curriculum
learning we can do on the physics and
the renderer. We have we will have
options in the future to modify the
fidelity in many ways. Um obviously the
physics ones are
I have a way that you could this with
puffer. I you'd have to make separate
batches of the sim. I don't know how
well it would work, but like essentially
you could make like say you could make
like four batches of Sims, three of
which are low fidelity and one of which
is high fidelity and then you cycle
through them, you only get the highest
fidelity sim like a quarter of the time,
for instance. You can over time you
start to use more of the high fidelity
data, right? You can do that as well.
The only thing I don't know about how it
works in your case is like this the
highfidelity sims are slower. You have
to set it up in a way that you don't get
time bottlenecked by the slowest sim,
right?
I see. Um I'm not exactly sure how
you're Well, if you're running these
processes isolated, right, one of them
is not going to affect the other one
anyway, right? I think because you do
batch sim the way we do we're not but
you you have batch sim, don't you? like
each each enemy is using separate CUDA
cores. Yeah. Yes. Yes. That's that'll be
a problem.
This will get pretty deep into sim. I
see. So in Puffer, we can just do domain
randomization for free pretty much
because our M's are serial on each core,
but like the fast ones and the slow
ones, they all average out.
Okay. So yeah, there's some sim design
things to consider here. But basically,
I think that if if this actually does
give us enough lift to like be worth
looking into further, um there's a lot
that you can do in the hyper space based
on what we have here.
Nice. Like that lel implementation for
instance, my guess will be that even if
you make the sim dramatically faster,
you're going to get bottlenecked by
other sources overhead quite quickly.
But we don't. Yeah. Like my lean roar
version for SAC and PO like you know
like 20 to 50% of the time spent on
updates. Yeah. Uh right. So I mean like
you see our default out of the box it's
like 5% on updates. Now it'll go up if
we increase update epochs obviously but
like there other design like there's
several sources of slowness right
there's overhead in the trainer itself.
There's optimization for specific batch
sizes and mini batch sizes. Like some of
it is the implementation of itself. Some
of it's just the settings. We have all
that figured out basically the high perf
case already.
Nice.
Okay, I also just pushed to that branch
my fix for the back end thing. So you
can just put physics cuda col
number and it should work. I hope. Well,
okay. So, I'm going to I'm going to go
work on this for a little bit. I'm going
to see if I can find like anything cool.
I'm going to try to like basically
speedrun the PC cube task and then see
if I can use that to like solve some
harder stuff. Awesome. Cool. Yeah. Um,
we'll do RGB eventually. We'll do RGB
eventually. Um, I I know that's probably
going to be a little tougher because
that just gets way slower, but we'll
we'll cross that bridge when we get
there. Mhm. Okay, nice.
Yeah, look forward to it. I'm going to
hop for now, but yeah, thanks for
dropping by and thanks for the the
assistance. Yes, see you. Yeah,
that was fun.
Cool. YouTube folks, I will be right
back. Use the restroom real quick and
then we will uh using all that
information we just got, we will
robotics.
Be right back.
respond to this thing.
All All right.
All
right.
Do the uh let's do the robotics thing.
Time for science.
So,
a few quick tests. Uh, first
six times.
Let's do 3 million.
Annie pick cube
tag.
First we're going to see if this thing
can actually solve indecent wall clock
these settings. Uh we haven't run this
before because this is going to do
Whoops.
Unexpected keyword sim freak.
Okay, we'll just not do this yet.
Roll freak. Sim freak.
What is going on here?
Ah,
okay.
This ought to work. And uh the question
here
is if we can learn this in a reasonable
amount of time and then after this we
will we'll basically tune this for uh
even faster potentially.
I just want to try messing with the uh
update epochs real quick
and then we'll try messing with the
simulation resolution.
Yeah, I think I need to increase it a
little bit because
it is learning but not fast enough.
the heck.
I don't think you should be trapping
terminals.
Okay. So this thing is
it's training,
but it's not training anywhere near as
well.
I guess it's just there's a limitation
to how much you can get by just scaling
the batch size in these
which is what you would expect. That's
fine.
So in that case then there's no point in
us running this distributed at all for
this specific task which again fine.
We will rerun the single GPU task just
to make sure that it still works.
this should give us a clean solve curve.
And of course,
Okay. So this is now giving us
the expected curve.
Another.
Oh yeah, right here.
Just make sure that we get the
bars.
So, and we're going to try to do like
sim frequency
like 20 or something
and see if it still solves.
I think that should be I don't know.
Yeah. Because if you can increase if you
can't increase the throughput easily by
increasing the number of ends
at least we can increase the throughput
by increasing the M speed
and then the question will just be how
much does the uh the simulation fidelity
hurt you?
Some robotics people tell me it matters
a lot. Um,
let's just say I don't believe them.
We will see. But for now, I don't
believe them.
We'll see if Puffer can do it.
All
right. So, 11.5ish mil and 4 minutes. 4
minutes to train a policy. I don't know
about you, but four minutes, that's way
too long.
What happens if I cut this to uh to 20?
What happens
according to stone? It should just get
five times faster.
They're
Hello. This might start to sound dumb,
but I saw
you started your PhD in 2019 and saw
some words from your GitHub. People used
the word agents like they do now, or is
that a buzz word? Yeah. So, here's the
thing. Uh, agent was always an RL term
and then some dumb LLM people came along
and decided that was their word now. So
we still talk about agents as our models
that interact with the environment. We
train them uh through interaction. They
are interaction models. They're agents,
right? Apparently now LM's run in a for
loop or agents or whatever, but we still
use the word the way that we always did.
Got that error when I try to switch.
Sim freak too low. Simulator becomes
inaccurate. It might have ns.
Dang.
control freak for higher fake FPS.
Really want higher fake FPS though.
Yeah.
So, yeah. No, agent is a real RL word.
It just doesn't mean the thing that the
LLM people think it means.
Okay, this is 80K. Let's see if this is
stable.
uses it. Yeah, just ignore the SF tech
bros. All I can say there are people
actually building legitimate stuff. You
just have to find them.
Like go ahead and download Puffer Lib
and see for So,
Okay. So, so far,
uh, this seems fine.
We're going to see how much like how
ridiculously low we can crank the
fidelity.
Okay.
So if this converges then it seems like
we can just get
whatever that is plus 50% for free.
Not fast enough for my liking yet
though.
Okay. 12 mil solve. Pretty much
identical curves. Yeah. Test or little
lower. It doesn't matter. Same same
solve curve. Yeah.
Hey BDF, we're in the middle of solving
robotics.
What happens if I bump control freak up?
Stone says this is higher fake FPS.
So, we'll see if this actually helps
learning or not.
Okay,
higher fake FPS. I'm down with this.
Let's see what it does to the learn
curve,
whether the data is actually fake or
not.
This will probably change the learning
dynamics quite a bit. So, I will not be
surprised if this does not help us. We
will see. What are you trying now? I'm
trying to make robotics really, really
fast while still being stable. I'm
messing with their simulation parameters
and seeing if we can still solve
Definitely a gap here.
If it actually does anything.
This is kind of the same as the frame
skip idea.
Yeah, fake FPS confirmed. Basically just
chips the curve where it like stretches
the curve.
Okay. So, if that doesn't work, let's
let's try to go back to
We want this at 20, man.
saying this isn't stable.
Okay. So
observations probably have ns
Hey, Joseph. What have you been up to
lately? How's it going? Uh, we are
currently attempting to fix robotics.
I've got Manny skills set up. We have
training. It's decent. Uh, we're trying
to optimize it to go very, very fast, as
is the tendency with Puffer.
So, I'm currently doing a combination of
tuning hyperparams,
uh, messing with the simulator
configuration to see if we can get away
with lower fidelity, generally seeing
how much speed we can get out of this
thing.
Excuse
me.
I'm here for about another hour today.
Previous topics of this stream have
included earlier in the day large scale
battle sim and quantum mechanics.
Which simulator is this? This is this is
Manny scale specifically. We're just
using P cube for now as a a simple task
to test with quickly, but our goal is
going to be to solve their hardest task
with Puffer.
And if we do a good job, who knows?
Maybe all the roboticists will come over
and start using puffer lib.
Okay. So, we got nams and hidden
how you convert their sim to puffer
ends.
A little tiny wrapper.
I mean, they already have a vector
format. Puffer M's a vector format. It's
like kind of trivial.
So, they're just using our trainer, not
really our sim stack, but that's fine.
Our trainer is pretty good on its own,
right?
Don't wear ns are getting into
N to numb.
See what that does.
Wait, why is the hidden float 16?
I just noticed that.
Are they doing float 16 by default for
some reason?
How the heck are we getting float 16?
I did not enable AM or anything.
There might be a bug with the I could
see there being a weird bug.
Okay. So, this is the end.
That's super weird.
This is uh lipstick.
Decode actions is in slow 16 somehow.
That's bizarre.
Is it specified as float 16?
Nope. Float 32.
This a me problem.
I messed this up somehow.
Second, I had multiple continuous
actions. I had this bug.
Interesting.
So, Spencer, I'm seeing stuff in float
16,
which should not be happening.
Loss of precision can definitely cause
that. If you're if there's like backward
pass ops happening and float 16, things
can definitely get screwed up.
It's a very weird issue.
Yeah, somehow hidden got puted into
float 16.
Yeah. So they got into the mean tensor
or the hidden tensor.
code observations is somehow
it a dictionary
maybe opposite a dictionary
I think it
even going to catch it? Not going to
catch it.
I did this backwards. Is this supposed
to be float
Uh, this is weird.
We need to catch this earlier.
Yeah, I'm somehow doing this crap.
How that makes any sense.
LSTM changing
my uh DT type.
What?
Why the hell is that just doing this?
You think it's the torch zeros thing we
set where
the precision is set to float 32 here as
well.
Eval,
this is in training.
You mean um
Yeah, this happens in training, man.
This literally gets none for the LSTM
state as input.
See what happens.
How should I design my ends? As I said,
real life this is continuous
and nothing in the real world is like
actually modeled as a continuous process
almost.
I have fat right
on production.
Yeah, you would just Well, I don't know
what the actions are because if you're
like there has to be something you're
interacting with here, right?
A CSV is not a simulation. A CSV is a
data set.
Eight and six different actions.
If it's a day, then presumably if the
actions influence the results of the
next day, then yeah, each row is a day.
But I don't know how you if you have
fixed data for the next step, right? I
don't know how you have an interactive
process. This
every day. Multi second.
Are you like trying to tra build a
trading agent or something?
Yeah, the issue that you're going to run
into there, right?
You'd have to predict deltas or
something. HFT,
a good way to lose a lot of money is not
understanding reinforcement learning and
trying to throw it on HFT. I'm just
going to warn you. Um,
the problem you're also going to run
into there is that your data set is not
an environment. It's a fixed static
archive. Whereas reinforcement learning
is meant to be trained in an interactive
context.
Um,
you have to reformulate some things a
little bit.
You'd basically be trying to like the
actions would be like predict delta to
next step or something. But then again,
you're not benefiting from interaction
at all. Then you have to ask why you're
not just training a sequence model.
this a non-stationary
it's not an environment at all the real
markets an environment static archive a
CSV as a data That
Right. But like
You'd have to have the sim would have to
actually be
the actions would be trades or
something. You'd have to actually sim
trades.
Yeah, you're able to see it, but you
don't have a sim of it. So, unless
you're training it on the real
environment, which you're not, right?
There's an issue
the sim.
Okay. So these observations are like
obscene.
The question is whether you're trying to
model the influence of your own actions
or not.
If you're not, then you're way better
off just with a sequence model. It's not
an RL problem.
If you are, then you need to know what
you're doing
because it's a lot harder.
Oh yeah, these OBS are not normalized
for are they?
Okay. So, we need to do something here.
How hard is it?
Well, essentially you would have to try
to actually build a sim of the market in
order to train it. Then that gets you
unlimited training data, but your SIM
has to be accurate. You didn't both know
how to build a SIM reasonably, and you'd
need good knowledge of the market
dynamics. And you'd have to hope that
this thing even makes any sense. I've
done a little bit of work in this space.
There are some details.
I you just initially you just build a
sim that would like try to map and to be
fair there's there's something in that
space that's kind of similar that we
might be able to open source. Um
but yeah, you just I think you just try
to like predict deltas initially
where you basically you try to what you
do is you'd assume that the you assume
you don't move the market and then your
actions are what to buy, what to sell.
I'm telling you though, you're going to
lose a ton of money if you actually just
like try to throw this on the real
market. Hodge podge.
Okay, let's see if this thing still
trains. I didn't realize that the ops
were so poorly normalized.
Demo.
Well, ideally, yes.
How does this not make a huge
difference? Like immediately.
Delta.
This is where things stop making sense,
right?
Cuz it's like, you know what the price
is now. So you know what the price is on
the next step from the data. So you like
technically the best action is to just
buy as much as possible of the thing
that you think is going to go up the
most.
That's the delta.
Is this thing seriously not trained? Now
I normalize the observations.
I might have to reweep it. Honestly,
Plasma, how's it going?
did lose any money?
No, I didn't throw it on the real
market. I just made a sim.
I literally don't even bother looking at
my stocks.
I just have like I just have some tech
stocks and I don't look at them.
Okay. So, um,
we didn't solve this end, but we figured
out something very important here
that their obs magnitudes are crazy.
Index funds. I don't just do index
funds. I have tech stocks.
Yeah.
Uh I also know some people I think I
probably am not allowed to do anything
else adjacent under under that
agreement. So,
like the vast majority of the people
trying to throw RL on stuff just aren't
going to know what they're doing enough
or things like
You do about this man?
Do I just have to like guess
a different learning rate or something?
That seems really silly.
Why don't I just reweep this thing?
Hang on.
Maybe maybe there's like a clipping
thing
going on here
and know how they are doing. I don't
have right technology.
Yeah, like I said, I have some adjacent
stuff in this space. I probably can't do
like another thing in this space.
Um,
you're more than welcome though to try
to set this up as a pop if you want.
Just be careful.
Good way to lose money.
I'd have to double check. I think
generally though the way most of the
things do is I don't I don't do like
simultaneous things. I don't do like
things in um
like if I have like a if I have like a
puffer thing formally with a business in
one like very specific area, I'm not
going to do something that's like very
very close to it elsewhere, right?
I'd have to double check specifics, but
that's generally what we do just by
policy.
I will solve.
I mean, I think ultimately it comes down
to
it comes down to you just need to make a
really good sim of the market, which is
very difficult, right?
Probably difficult regardless of what
data you have.
But this does
not have most of does lose money though.
Okay, so Stone says the solvers in the
physics sim are trying to optimally
figure out how the robot moves and
objects collide at a very high DT low
sim frequency
only so many solver iterations. is
likely not converging.
This looks substantially more stable
than before.
Like learning
Maybe this will just be enough. We'll
see.
Yeah. So, this is a stable solve.
Why you laughing?
cuz I'm trying to figure out what the
hell this is. Like the fact that they
return you giant observations. I'm
asking Stone if like you can just do
forward oiler on this thing.
I have a DM with Stone where I'm asking
him stupid
I'm like, "Hey, what happens if you just
use forward oiler on this thing? What if
your robotic sim is just x= x + bx * dt?
you use gridl like matrix on observ you
can do that
I'm going to see if this solves anything
real fast
I'm messing with the uh I'm messing with
the simulation fidelity. And apparently,
according to Stone, I'm doing like dumb
that nobody does in robotics, which
is precisely the way I like things.
suggestion
for market
like matrix.
You can do that technically. Yeah,
I don't know. People do like comms over
old temporal data if you really have to
batch a bunch of it into one
And I got to run for dinner in a few
minutes as well.
High frequency trading. Yes, I know.
I know what that is.
I do this fast.
The reason I think that's hard, I'll
give you this. It's because typically
you want to have a decent simulator for
the thing that you're trying to mess
with. And uh it's very difficult to
build a good one of those for the
market. Why?
I'm on Discord.
This isn't you. I don't Oh, one minute
ago.
Not it.
Hello.
Passing physics step.
Number of physics steps that run
after each action.
Okay. So, it's just it's hard for it to
converge.
Okay.
Like this was faster, wasn't it?
Yeah, I'm not going to be able to tell
you. Like, I'm not going to be able to
answer that, man.
Like, obviously.
Physics
is known to take lesser steps. The DT is
smaller. Okay.
So
like Yes.
Uh I did fix the nans thing Spencer just
by uh clamping the observations and nans
and numbing them but that doesn't make
it it trained to like 50% in the same
number of steps.
So, I think Stone told me this should be
this should be like theoretically the
fastest it could possibly go, right?
And I have to run for dinner in a
second. So, for the folks on YouTube,
um, all open source work, we'll be back
on Monday. Buffer.ai for all the things.
the repo to help me out for free. You
can join the discord to get involved
with this as well.
Uh help me.
I obviously can't answer questions like
that, man. Answer general questions. I
can't tell you like data source things.
Um,
do you know why nans were being
inserted? Yeah, Spencer. So, it's just
it's the physics and fidelity.